[Skip to Main
Content](https://consultations.health.gov.au/consultation_finder/#page-
content)

[ ![Department of Health and Aged Care
logo](https://consultations.health.gov.au/os-custom-
logos/dhac_100hreverse.png) ](https://www.health.gov.au/)

Toggle navigation Menu

Search

  * [Home](/)
  * [Find Activities](/consultation_finder/)
  * [We Asked, You Said, We Did](/we_asked_you_said/)

#  Find activities

Title or Description

Advanced search ›

Advanced search

Title or Description

Status Any Status Open Forthcoming Closed

Audience Any Audience Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People  Academics
Carers and guardians  Families  Men  Parents  Seniors  Women  Young people
BPRU staff  Graduates  Health staff  HPRG (TGA) Staff  Online and Publications
staff  PCCD  Secretariat  Aged care professionals  Aged care service providers
Aged care workforce  Businesses  Commonwealth agencies  Community groups
Contracted Service Providers  General public  Health professionals  Health
workforce  Local governments  Non-government organisations  State government
agencies  Biogicals  Complementary medicines  Medical Devices & IVDs  Other
Over-the-counter medicines  Prescription medicines

Interest Any Interest Aged Care  Dementia  Home Care  Residential Aged Care
Short-Term Restorative Care  Cancer  Children's health  e-Health  Health
insurance  Health technology  Hospitals  Learning and development  Legislation
Medicare  Pharmaceutical benefits  Regulatory policy  Rural health services
Women's health  Policy Development  Strategic Policy  Administration
Capability  Disability Workforce Action Plan 2016-18  Grants and procurement
Information Technology  Management review  Staff audit  Staff election
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health  Alcohol  Chronic disease
Communicable diseases  Dental health  Drugs and substance abuse  Environmental
health  Food standards  Hearing  Immunisation  Mental health  Non-prescription
medicines  Organ and tissue donation  Prescription drugs  Preventative health
Tobacco

Department Any Department ACSQHC  ARPANSA  ATODB  Aged Care Access and Quality
(ACAQ)  Aged Care Division  Aged Care Policy and Regulation  Aged Care Reform
& Compliance Division  Aged Care Strategic Policy  Aged Care, Quality and
Safety Commission  Ageing and Aged Care Services  BBVSTI  Best Practice
Regulation  COVID19 Vaccine Taskforce  Cancer Care  Cancer Hearing and Program
Support Division  Chronic Disease and Food Policy Branch  Compliance Systems
Corporate and Agency Support Branch  DED - Office of the Secretary  Delib
Digital Communications Section  Digital Health  EPR  Financial Management
Division  GSD  Genomics  HEM  HPP Zoonoses Foodborne & EID, Office of Health
Protection  HWD - Health Training Branch  HWD Access & Incentives Branch  HWD
Rural Access Branch  Health Economics and Research Division  Health Grants and
Network  Health Provider Compliance Division  Health Services Division  Health
Social Club  Health Systems Policy Division  Health Workforce  Home Support
and Assessment Branch  Home Support and Hearing Branch  Home and Residential
Division  Hospital Education  IHPA  IRHD  ITD  In Home Aged Care Division
Indigenous Health  Legal and Assurance Divison  MBD  MHCDD  MRU  Medical
Benefits Division  Medicare Financing and Listing Branch  Medicare Reviews
Unit  Medicines Regulation Division  Mental Health Services  NHMRC  NICNAS
National Cancer Screening Program Division  National Integrity of Sport Unit
National Mental Health Commission  National Preventive Health Taskforce  OACQC
ACC  OGTR  OHP - Immunisation Branch  OHP - Regulatory Policy Branch  OHP –
Environmental Health and Health Protection Policy Branch  OHPD Health
Protection Policy Branch  Office for Sport  Office for Sport  Office of Drug
Control  Office of Hearing Services  Office of the Chief Nursing and Midwifery
Officer  PACD  PBD Pharmacy Review  PBS Subsidy Taskforce  PCCD  PCCD BSC
PCCD Campaigns  PCCD Capability  PCCD Communication  PCCD People  PCCD People
Employee relations  PCCD Publishing  PHD Social policy  PHD Tobacco  PMHCD
People, Capability and Communication Division  Pharmaceutical Access Branch
Pharmaceutical Policy Branch  Pharmacy Branch  Policy and International –
Office for Sport  Population Health and Sport Division A  Population Health
and Sport Division B  Portfolio Investment Division  Portfolio Strategies,
Engagement and Coordination  Preventive Health Policy Branch  Preventive
Health Programs Branch  Primary Care & Mental Health Division  Primary Care,
Data and Evidence Branch, Indigenous Health Division  Primary Health Network
Primary Health Networks Strategy Branch  Primary Healthcare Branch (PHB)
Provider Benefits Integrity Division  RPGD Hearing  Research, Data and
Evaluation Division  Residential and Flexi Aged Care Division  Strategic
Policy  Strategy, Missions and Innovation  Suicide Prevention Taskforce
Technology Assessment & Access Division  Work Health and Safety  Youth
Taskforce  eHealth

Search

‹ Basic search

257 results

Sort by:

  * [ Updated  ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/consultation_finder/?b_start=0&sort_on=iconsultable_modifieddate&sort_order=ascending)
  * [ Open date  ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/consultation_finder/?b_start=0&sort_on=iconsultable_startdate&sort_order=descending)
  * [ Close date  ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/consultation_finder/?b_start=0&sort_on=iconsultable_enddate&sort_order=descending)

  * ## [Volunteers in aged care survey](https://consultations.health.gov.au/aged-care-division/volunteers-in-aged-care/)

Do you volunteer or work with volunteers in the aged care sector? Take part in
our volunteering survey. Volunteers are an important part of the aged care
system freely giving their time, companionship, care, and support. As part of
the Australian Government’s response to the Royal Commission into Aged Care
Quality and Safety, the Department is currently seeking the views of: all
people who volunteer in the aged care sector, and all those who work with
volunteers... [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/aged-care-
division/volunteers-in-aged-care/)

Closed 26 May 2023

  * ## [IAEA DS525 Chemistry Programme for Water Cooled Nuclear Power Plants](https://consultations.health.gov.au/arpansa/iaea-ds525-apr-23/)

ARPANSA coordinates comments on behalf of Australia on IAEA draft documents.
The IAEA is seeking comments from their member states on a new draft IAEA
Safety Guide – DS524 Radiation Protection Aspects of Design for Nuclear Power
Plants What is the purpose of the guide? The object of the safety guide is to
provide guidance on provisions that should be made in the design of nuclear
power plants to protect site personnel, the public and the environment against
radiological hazards...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/arpansa/iaea-ds525-apr-23/)

Closed 20 May 2023

  * ## [Review of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF Agreement)](https://consultations.health.gov.au/population-health-and-sport-division/maif-review/)

We are seeking feedback to inform the Review of the Marketing in Australia of
Infant Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF Agreement). The
MAIF Agreement is a voluntary, self-regulatory code of conduct between
manufacturers and importers of infant formula products in Australia. The key
objectives of the MAIF Agreement are to: ensure safe and adequate nutrition
for babies encourage breastfeeding as the first option for babies ...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/population-health-and-sport-
division/maif-review/)

Closed 12 May 2023

  * ## [Prostheses List Reforms - Consultation Paper No 6b - Proposed New Cost Recovery Legislation](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-division/prostheses-list-reforms-consultation-paper-no-6b-p/)

The purpose of this consultation paper is to provide stakeholders with the
opportunity to understand, in greater detail, the proposed cost recovery
arrangements related to the renamed Prostheses List which are planned to
commence on 1 July 2023. This includes details related to legislative changes
required to enact the proposed cost recovery arrangements. We ask that
stakeholders provide feedback on the proposed cost recovery arrangements. This
feedback will then be used to inform...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-
division/prostheses-list-reforms-consultation-paper-no-6b-p/)

Closed 1 May 2023

  * ## [Prostheses List Reforms - Consultation paper No 6a - Proposed Listing Criteria](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-division/prostheses-list-reforms-consultation-paper-no-6a-p/)

The purpose of this paper is to provide additional information about the
listing criteria that are proposed to apply for medical devices and human
tissue products to be included in the Private Health Insurance (Medical
Devices and Human Tissue Products) Rules. We ask that stakeholders provide
feedback on the proposed listing criteria and any ideas they have regarding
the issues in the consultation paper. This feedback will then be used to
inform any further refinement of the...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-
division/prostheses-list-reforms-consultation-paper-no-6a-p/)

Closed 1 May 2023

  * ## [IAT live trial learning pack - feedback survey](https://consultations.health.gov.au/home-and-residential-division/iat-live-trial-learning-pack-feedback-survey/)

A feedback survey on the IAT live trial learning pack.
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/home-and-residential-division/iat-
live-trial-learning-pack-feedback-survey/)

Closed 28 April 2023

  * ## [A New Model for Regulating Aged Care - Details of the proposed new model - Workshop Registration](https://consultations.health.gov.au/best-practice-regulation/new-regulatory-model-aged-care-workshop-interest/)

The Department of Health and Aged Care (the department) is developing a new
model for regulating aged care as part of the changes to improve the quality
and safety of aged care in Australia. We have released A new model for
regulating Aged Care, Consultation Paper No. 2: Details of the proposed new
model and are seeking views on the paper as part of an 8-week consultation
period. The paper proposes changes to how the...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/best-practice-regulation/new-
regulatory-model-aged-care-workshop-interest/)

Opened 26 April 2023

  * ## [IAEA DS518a on Safety of Nuclear Fuel Reprocessing Facilities and DS518b on Safety of Nuclear Fuel Research and Development Facilities](https://consultations.health.gov.au/arpansa/copy-of-iaea-ds518-apr-23/)

ARPANSA coordinates comments on behalf of Australia on IAEA draft documents.
The IAEA is seeking comments from their member states on two new draft IAEA
Safety Guides DS518a on Safety of Nuclear Fuel Reprocessing Facilities and
DS518b on Safety of Nuclear Fuel Research and Development Facilities. What is
the purpose of the guide? The object of the two safety guides is to provide
comprehensive, consistent and up-to-date recommendations on implementing the
safety requirements...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/arpansa/copy-of-iaea-ds518-apr-23/)

Opened 17 April 2023

  * ## [SSD Performance Report: 1 July - 31 December 2022](https://consultations.health.gov.au/home-support-and-assessment-branch/ssd-performance-report-1-july-31-december-2022/)

Under the Commonwealth Home Support Programme (CHSP) grant agreement, Sector
Support and Development (SSD) providers are required to submit a Performance
Report to the Department of Health and Aged Care bi-annually. This performance
report will be used to gather information that may inform future policy and
analyse demand for services as the department moves towards the new in-home
aged care program. It is not intended to communicate changes to SSD policy.
... [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/home-support-and-assessment-
branch/ssd-performance-report-1-july-31-december-2022/)

Closed 10 April 2023

  * ## [Prostheses List Apply Public Beta Survey ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-division/prostheses-list-public-beta-survey/)

The Department is in the process of enhancing the Health Products Portal (HPP)
to support Prostheses List applications. As part of the Public Beta phase of
testing, medical device organisations can complete a mock Prostheses List
application for a new or amended listing on part A or C of the Prostheses
List, via the HPP.  [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-
assessment-access-division/prostheses-list-public-beta-survey/)

Closed 6 April 2023

  * ## [Prostheses List Reforms - Consultation Paper 5 - Bundling of Benefits for General Use Items](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-division/prostheses-list-reforms-consultation-paper-5-bundl/)

The Department of Health and Aged Care is seeking feedback from stakeholders
on the bundling of benefits for general use items (GUIs). The purpose of this
paper is to provide options for this new transitional arrangement which will
temporarily require GUIs to be funded by insurers under the Benefit
Requirements Rules. The paper can be found at the bottom of the page and is
open for consultation via an online survey.
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-
division/prostheses-list-reforms-consultation-paper-5-bundl/)

Closed 27 March 2023

  * ## [National Site of Recognition for thalidomide survivors and their families - words of significance ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/preventive-health-policy-branch/national-site-of-recognition-for-thalidomide-survi/)

The Department of Health and Aged Care and the National Capital Authority, in
collaboration with a Steering Committee, is progressing work to establish a
National Site of Recognition for thalidomide survivors and their families. The
Site of Recognition will be located at Kings Park in Canberra. It will
recognise the pain and suffering experienced by thalidomide survivors, as well
as the impact on their loved ones. Site of Recognition Design Based on the
Design Aspects Survey...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/preventive-health-policy-
branch/national-site-of-recognition-for-thalidomide-survi/)

Closed 8 March 2023

  * ## [Prostheses List Reforms - Mixed Benefit Groups](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-division/prostheses-list-reforms-mixed-benefit-groups/)

Following the mixed benefits webinar held on Tuesday 14 February 2023, the
Department of Health and Aged Care is publishing the following documents for
stakeholders to review the regrouping work as part of the Prostheses List (PL)
Reforms. The documents that can be found include: Rationale for the
restructure of the PL proposed by hereco including an overview of the
structure to subgroup level (accepted by the Department in December 2022);
Webinar presentation and...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-
division/prostheses-list-reforms-mixed-benefit-groups/)

Closed 2 March 2023

  * ## [MAClearning Content and System Feedback](https://consultations.health.gov.au/ageing-and-aged-care/maclearning-content-and-system-feedback/)

Share your views with us on the training elements and MAClearning System.
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/ageing-and-aged-care/maclearning-
content-and-system-feedback/)

Opened 1 March 2023

  * ## [General practice data and electronic clinical decision support - Consultation Regulation Impact Statement ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/primary-health-network/gp-data-and-ecds-cris/)

The Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care is releasing this
Consultation Regulation Impact Statement (CRIS) to inform thinking around
general practice data and electronic clinical decision support (eCDS). The two
policy areas discussed in this CRIS have been combined given the overlap in
stakeholders and links between general practice data and eCDS in the broader
healthcare ecosystem. The CRIS is the final stage in a two stage consultation
process,... [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/primary-health-
network/gp-data-and-ecds-cris/)

Closed 28 February 2023

  * ## [Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project Consultation](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-health/healthcare-identifiers-framework-project/)

The Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care (the Department)
is consulting with stakeholders to identify opportunities to amend the
Healthcare Identifiers Framework (the HI Framework) which includes the
Healthcare Identifiers Act 2010 (the Act), the Healthcare Identifiers
Regulations 2020 (the Regulations) and the key policy settings for the
Healthcare Identifiers Service (HI Service), through the Healthcare
Identifiers Framework Project (the...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-health/healthcare-
identifiers-framework-project/)

Closed 28 February 2023

  * ## [CPE scoping survey for Public Health Laboratories and other Laboratories performing surveillance testing for CPE](https://consultations.health.gov.au/ohpd-health-protection-policy-branch/cpe-scoping-survey-for-phls/)

Purpose and Scope The Public Health Laboratory Network (PHLN) Expert Reference
Panel (ERP) on Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) will survey public health
laboratories, public health units and other laboratories or teams involved in
the testing and reporting of carbapenemase-producing Enterobacterales (CPE).
This information will be used for a data-informed analysis, to understand how
CPE is detected by testing, reported and actioned in Australia. Key aims ...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/ohpd-health-protection-policy-
branch/cpe-scoping-survey-for-phls/)

Closed 10 February 2023

  * ## [CPE scoping survey for Public Health Units](https://consultations.health.gov.au/ohpd-health-protection-policy-branch/cpe-scoping-survey-for-public-health-units/)

Purpose and Scope The Public Health Laboratory Network (PHLN) Expert Reference
Panel (ERP) on Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) will survey public health
laboratories, public health units and other laboratories or teams involved in
the testing and reporting of carbapenemase-producing Enterobacterales (CPE).
This information will be used for a data-informed analysis, to understand how
CPE is detected by testing, reported and actioned in Australia. Key aims
The... [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/ohpd-health-protection-
policy-branch/cpe-scoping-survey-for-public-health-units/)

Closed 10 February 2023

  * ## [Increasing access to health and aged care: a strategic plan for the nurse practitioner workforce (the Plan)](https://consultations.health.gov.au/health-workforce/strategic-plan-for-nurse-practitioner-workforce/)

The Department of Health and Aged Care is developing a strategic plan for the
nurse practitioner workforce. The purpose of the Plan is to describe a set of
actions that can be taken to address nurse practitioner workforce issues and
enhance the delivery of nursing care to the Australian community. A nurse
practitioner is a registered nurse with the experience, expertise and
authority to diagnose and treat people of all ages with a variety of acute or
chronic health... [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/health-
workforce/strategic-plan-for-nurse-practitioner-workforce/)

Closed 10 February 2023

  * ## [National Dementia Action Plan – Public consultation](https://consultations.health.gov.au/aged-care-division/ndap-public-consultation/)

We are seeking feedback to inform a National Dementia Action Plan. The
National Dementia Action Plan is a joint initiative between the Australian
Government and state and territory governments. It is a 10 year plan to put
people living with dementia, their families, and carers at the centre of all
action on dementia. The National Dementia Action Plan will provide a vision
where Australians understand dementia – people living with dementia and
their... [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/aged-care-division/ndap-
public-consultation/)

Closed 31 January 2023

  * ## [Consultation on the draft Inspector-General of Aged Care Bill](https://consultations.health.gov.au/aged-care-division/inspectorgeneral/)

The Royal Commission into Aged Care Quality and Safety recommended that the
Australian Government establish an Inspector-General of Aged Care, supported
by an independent Office. The Inspector-General will play a critical role in
driving improvement across the aged care system by: looking at it from end to
end, calling out systemic issues and significant problems, and making
recommendations for improvements, and providing increased accountability
and... [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/aged-care-
division/inspectorgeneral/)

Closed 27 January 2023

  * ## [Intellectual Disability Health Core Capabilities - Consultation Survey](https://consultations.health.gov.au/primary-care-mental-health-division/intellectual-disability-health-core-capabilities/)

The Department of Health and Aged Care (the Department) is leading the
Intellectual Disability Health Curriculum Development Project, a short-term
action under the National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with
Intellectual Disability . A key component of the project is the development of
an Intellectual Disability Health Capability Framework (the Framework) in
collaboration with people with intellectual disability, their families, carers
and support workers, accreditation...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/primary-care-mental-health-
division/intellectual-disability-health-core-capabilities/)

Closed 27 January 2023

  * ## [Residential Disability Accommodation COVID-19 Winter Dose Vaccination Clinic - Registration Form](https://consultations.health.gov.au/covid19-vaccine-taskforce/residential-disability-care-booster-clinics-regi/)

Winter doses for residential disability accommodation settings can be sourced
through a variety of channels, including primary care providers such as GPs
and pharmacies, working with Primary Health Networks (PHNs) to identify
primary health care in-reach options and Commonwealth in-reach. Where a
disability service provider is not able to source a primary care provider to
administer COVID-19 Winter Dose Vaccine, they are able to request an in-reach
Commonwealth COVID-19 Winter Dose...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/covid19-vaccine-
taskforce/residential-disability-care-booster-clinics-regi/)

Closed 31 December 2022

  * ## [Request for Revalidated Service 2023](https://consultations.health.gov.au/rpgd-hearing/copy-of-request-for-revalidated-service/)

This form is to be completed if you wish to complete a request for a
Revalidated Service for a client with the Australian Government Hearing
Services Program. Please click the link below to begin your request.
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/rpgd-hearing/copy-of-request-for-
revalidated-service/)

Opened 20 December 2022

  * ## [Consultation on the revised PBS Post-market Review (PMR) Framework](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-access-division/revised-pbs-post-market-review-framework/)

PBS Post-market Review Framework The Department of Health and Aged Care is
inviting stakeholders to provide feedback on a revised draft of the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Post-market Review (PMR) Framework.
Stakeholders will have the opportunity to engage and provide feedback on the
revised draft of the 2022 PMR Framework. The diverse perspectives, experience
and knowledge of all stakeholders is highly valued and will contribute to
the... [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/technology-assessment-
access-division/revised-pbs-post-market-review-framework/)

Closed 16 December 2022

  * ## [Expansion of Newborn Bloodspot Screening Public Consultation](https://consultations.health.gov.au/hearing-and-program-support-division/nbs-expansion-public-consultation/)

The Australian Government has committed $39.0 million over four years to
expand newborn bloodspot screening (NBS) to include more conditions and ensure
consistency of programs across Australia. This consultation process will give
the Department of Health and Aged Care important information about the range
of issues that should be considered during implementation of expansion. For
context about the newborn bloodspot screening programs, and the expansion
process,... [More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/hearing-and-program-
support-division/nbs-expansion-public-consultation/)

Closed 12 December 2022

  * ## [Consultation on the Private Health Insurance (PHI) Actuarial Study into Risk Equalisation](https://consultations.health.gov.au/medical-benefits-division/consultation-on-the-private-health-insurance-phi-a/)

The Department is conducting studies into key PHI regulatory and policy
settings (Lifetime Health Cover, Risk Equalisation Medicare Levy Surcharge,
PHI Rebate and Private Hospital Default Benefit Arrangements). The aim of
these studies is to identify opportunities to improve the affordability and
quality of PHI cover for consumers to access private health services and to
optimise the contribution private health makes to the health system. Finity
Consulting (Finity), an actuarial...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/medical-benefits-
division/consultation-on-the-private-health-insurance-phi-a/)

Closed 5 December 2022

  * ## [Independent Capability Review of the Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/aged-care-access-and-quality-acaq/independent-capability-review-of-the-aged-care-qua/)

An independent capability review of the Aged Care Quality and Safety
Commission (the Commission) is being undertaken in response to recommendations
10 and 104 of the Royal Commission into Aged Care Quality and Safety. Mr David
Tune AO PSM, former Secretary of the Australian Department of Finance, is
conducting the review and will produce a preliminary and a final report over
the course of the six-month review. The findings will be used to support...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/aged-care-access-and-quality-
acaq/independent-capability-review-of-the-aged-care-qua/)

Closed 2 December 2022

  * ## [Medical Research Future Fund's Million Minds Mental Health Research Mission - National Consultation on the Roadmap and Implementation Plan](https://consultations.health.gov.au/health-economics-and-research-division/mrff-millionminds/)

The Medical Research Future Fund’s (MRFF) Million Minds Mental Health Research
Mission (the Mission) is investing $125 million for research to support a
million Australians with mental health issues. This funding will enable access
to new approaches to prevention, diagnosis, treatment and recovery. As per the
MRFF Mission Governance document , the Mission’s Expert Advisory Panel is to
provide their advice to the Minister for Health and Aged Care on...
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/health-economics-and-research-
division/mrff-millionminds/)

Closed 1 December 2022

  * ## [CHSP Survey about Employee Salary Costs and Employee Occupations](https://consultations.health.gov.au/home-support-and-assessment-branch/chsp-survey-about-employees/)

Survey of CHSP Providers regarding Employee Salary Costs and Employee
Occupations The Fair Work Commission is currently considering applications to
increase minimum award wages for the aged care sector. The Australian
Government has supported these applications with a submission to the Fair Work
Commission and committed to providing additional support to aged care
providers to assist with meeting the increased costs of delivering care that
may arise from a decision in this case....
[More](https://consultations.health.gov.au/home-support-and-assessment-
branch/chsp-survey-about-employees/)

Closed 30 November 2022

257 results. Page 1 of 9

Previous page | [Next
page](https://consultations.health.gov.au/consultation_finder/?b_start=30)

  * [Accessibility](https://consultations.health.gov.au/accessibility_policy/)
  * [Terms of Use](https://consultations.health.gov.au/terms_and_conditions/)
  * [Cookies](https://consultations.health.gov.au/cookie_policy/)
  * [Privacy](https://consultations.health.gov.au/privacy_policy/)
  * [Help / feedback](https://consultations.health.gov.au/support/)

[Citizen Space](https://www.delib.net/citizen_space) from
[Delib](https://www.delib.net)

* * *

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

