Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)

[About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)

# Medicare safety nets

Medicare safety nets give you extra support if you have high out-of-pocket
medical costs. Once you incur a certain amount of out-of-pocket costs for out-
of-hospital medical services, Medicare gives you a higher amount back for the
rest of the year.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare safety nets&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare safety nets&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets)

Loading...

On this page

## **About Medicare safety nets**

Medicare safety nets support people who have high out-of-pocket medical costs
for services provided out-of-hospital. The safety nets do not apply to
services that are not listed on the [Medicare Benefits
Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
(MBS) or to MBS services that are delivered in hospital.

Once your out-of-pocket medical costs [reach a certain
amount](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/what-are-medicare-safety-nets-
thresholds?context=22001), Medicare gives you a higher amount back for the
rest of the year. The increased benefits apply to either your:

  * ‘gap expenses’ – the difference between the Medicare benefit you get and the [schedule fee](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=GN.10.26)
  * ‘out-of-pocket expenses’ – the difference between the Medicare benefit you get and what your health practitioner charges.

Anyone enrolled in Medicare is eligible for these safety nets. Services
Australia keeps a tally of your MBS service expenses – you can see [where
you’re up to](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-manage-your-
medicare-safety-net?context=22001) any time.

Read more about the [Medicare safety
nets](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-safety-nets).

## **Greatest Permissible Gap (GPG)**

The GPG is defined in Section 10(3) of the national [Health Insurance Act
1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00174) and requires that
the difference between the MBS fee for an item and the 85% Medicare benefit
must not be greater than a specified amount. In other words the GPG is a rule
that sets a maximum gap dollar amount.

The GPG amount is indexed annually on 1 November in line with the consumer
price index (June quarter).

From 1 November 2022, the GPG is set at $93.20, which means that all out-of-
hospital Medicare services which have an MBS fee of $621.50 or more will
attract a benefit that is greater than 85% of the MBS fee.

If, for example, the schedule fee for a service is $1000 then the 85% benefit
would be $850, which means that the gap is $150. In this case the GPG would
apply and the patient would receive a Medicare benefit of $906.80, not $850
(i.e. $1000 minus the GPG of $93.20).

The benefit payable for those items meeting the threshold is the MBS fee less
the GPG amount. The GPG amount is to be rounded up to the nearest multiple of
5 cents.

You don’t need to do anything – Services Australia automatically applies the
GPG when paying your rebate.

## **Original Medicare Safety Net (OMSN)**

Your [gap expenses](/node/40785#about-medicare-safety-nets) count towards the
OMSN.

Once your gap expenses reach the
[threshold](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/what-are-medicare-safety-
nets-thresholds?context=22001) in a calendar year, Medicare will reimburse you
100% of the [schedule
fee](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=GN.10.26)
(instead of 85%) for any further out-of-hospital medical services you need
that are subsidised under the MBS.

If your health practitioner charges more than the schedule fee, you may still
incur an out-of-pocket cost.

For 2023, the OMSN threshold is $531.70. We review it each year on 1 January,
in line with any rise in the cost of living ([consumer price
index](https://www.ato.gov.au/Rates/Consumer-price-index/)).

If you’re an individual, you don’t need to do anything – you’ll automatically
get the higher rebate once you reach the threshold. If you’re a family, you
need to [let Services Australia
know](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-manage-your-medicare-safety-
net?context=22001), so they can record your family’s combined expenses.

Read more about the [OMSN](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/original-
medicare-safety-net?context=22001).

## **Extended Medicare Safety Net (EMSN)**

Your [out-of-pocket expenses](/node/40785#about-medicare-safety-nets) count
towards the EMSN.

Once your out-of-pocket expenses reach the
[threshold](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/what-are-medicare-safety-
nets-thresholds?context=22001) in a calendar year, Medicare will cover up to
80% of any further out-of-pocket expenses you have for out-of-hospital medical
services that are subsidised under the MBS.

A number of out-of-hospital services have a [cap on how much Medicare will
pay](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=GN.10.27&qt=noteID&criteria=%20EMSN%20benefit%20cap).
This means that if your out-of-pocket expenses are higher than that cap, the
amount you get back might be lower than 80%. The EMSN does not affect how much
you get from your private health insurance.

For 2023, the EMSN thresholds are:

  * $770.30 for people who have a concession card or get Family Tax Benefit Part A
  * $2,414 for others.

We review these each year on 1 January, in line with any rise in the cost of
living ([consumer price index](https://www.ato.gov.au/Rates/Consumer-price-
index/)).

If you’re an individual, you don’t need to do anything – you’ll automatically
get the higher rebate once you reach the threshold. If you’re a family, you
need to [let Services Australia
know](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-manage-your-medicare-safety-
net?context=22001), so they can record your family’s combined expenses.

Read more about the [EMSN](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/extended-
medicare-safety-net?context=22001).

Last updated:

22 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
    * [What Medicare covers](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers)
    * [Costs](/topics/medicare/about/costs)
    * [Safety nets](/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets)
    * [What we do](/topics/medicare/about/what-we-do)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

