Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  4. [Primary care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)

[Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-
care)

# Annual health checks for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people can get a free health check once
a year, as well as free follow-up care if needed. This helps keep people
healthy by identifying risks of ill health early to prevent chronic conditions
from developing.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Annual health checks for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Annual health checks for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)

Loading...

On this page

## Supporting health with free annual health checks

If you identify as an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander person and have a
[Medicare
card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/indigenous-
access-program/how-access-better-health-services), you can get a free health
check every year.

This health check is important. It can help identify whether you’re at risk of
illnesses or [chronic conditions](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/chronic-conditions). It’s much easier to prevent these than to treat
them, so catching them early can make a big difference.

If you have a chronic condition, your health check can help make sure you are
getting the medication and care you need.

You can also ask your doctor about anything you’re worried about or need help
with.

Your doctor can only do this health check if you agree. You can have it every
9 to 12 months, and it’s free at any Aboriginal Medical Service or bulk-
billing clinic.

After your health check, your doctor can refer you to up to 10 free follow-up
services if needed, like:

  * a specialist or another health service
  * a counsellor
  * a service that works to prevent chronic conditions.

[ ![Cover image for annual health check
animation](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/images/videos/2021/03/annual-
health-check-for-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-people-
animation.jpg?itok=cOwhhFHE) ]()

2:23

Transcript

Good health starts with the 715 health check.

It keeps our health heading in the right direction, and can help to stop small
health problems becoming big ones.

Getting a regular health check tells you important information about the
health of your body.

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people of all ages can get an annual 715
health check. They are free at Aboriginal Medical Services and bulk-billing
clinics.

First, you might need to make an appointment. Contact your local health
service to find out. They may also be able to organise transport for you, if
you need it.

When you arrive, you will be asked for your contact details, your Medicare
card, or your concession card. So make sure to bring them along, or check that
they are on file.

A nurse, health worker or doctor will ask you about your health and your
family medical history. You can tell them about any worries your might have.
They will gather information about your health. The information will be
different, depending on your age.

They might check your blood pressure, blood sugar levels, height and weight.
You may also have a blood or urine test. Depending on the information you've
given, you might have some other tests too.

You can also talk to the nurse, health worker or doctor about your family's
health, and how to make sure kids, parents, aunts and uncles can get their
health check up.

Your doctor or health practitioner will then talk to you about the information
you've given. Together, you'll talk about a plan to stay in good health. You
might also be referred to a specialist or other health professional to better
manage things like diabetes or nutrition.

All up, the 715 health check should take under an hour. You might also be
referred to your health service's Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health
worker who can help guide you to develop a health action plan.

Get on board with the 715 health check, because your health is in your hands.
Contact your local health service, and book a 715 check up for you and your
family today.

## Where you can get a free annual health check

You can get your free health check at any [Aboriginal Medical
Service](/resources/apps-and-tools/map-of-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-
islander-health-and-medical-services "Map of Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander health and medical services") or [bulk-billing
clinic](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services). If you
prefer to not go in person, you can ask whether they offer phone or video
(telehealth) appointments. The service will be able to answer your questions
and help you access the services you need.

If you can, try to go to the same doctor or clinic each time, so the health
professionals you see know about your health needs.

## What happens at a free annual health check

Your health check can take up to an hour. As well as the doctor, you might
also see a nurse, an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander health worker or
another health practitioner.

Your check will depend on your age and circumstances, but your health
professional might:

  * check your blood pressure
  * check blood sugar levels
  * measure your height and weight
  * do a blood test
  * do a urine test
  * ask about the health of your family
  * talk to you about your health priorities and goals
  * do other tests, as needed.

Remember that it’s your check, so tell your health worker about any worries
you have.

Your doctor will write down information from your health check on one of the
[templates developed by the Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners](https://www.racgp.org.au/the-racgp/faculties/atsi/cultural-
safety/resources/2019-mbs-item-715-health-check-templates) and the National
Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation.

Your doctor will let you know if you need any follow-up care to look after
your health, and where you need to go for that care.

They might suggest services to help you with your:

  * heart
  * vision
  * hearing
  * movement
  * mental health.

If you have a Health Care Card, and have or are at risk of having a [chronic
condition](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/chronic-conditions), you
might also get [free or discounted
medicines](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/publication/factsheets/closing-the-gap-
pbs-co-payment-measure).

## **Your health is in your hands – resources to promote annual health
checks**

An annual health check can make a real difference in keeping people healthy
and strong. But only about 30% of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
are getting their health check.

We have resources to explain the health check and encourage more people to get
theirs.

![Your health is in your hands
poster](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2021/03/annual-
health-check-for-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-people-resource-
collection.jpg?itok=QJAWXbxq)

###  [Annual health check for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people –
Resource collection ](/resources/collections/annual-health-check-for-
aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-people-resource-collection?language=en)

This collection contains videos, podcasts and print resources about the free
annual health check for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

Last updated:

3 June 2022

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-
torres-strait-islander-health)

  * [Status and determinants of health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/status-and-determinants)
  * [How we support health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/how-we-support-health)
  * [Who we work with](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/who-we-work-with-to-support-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)
    * [Annual health checks](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks)
    * [Ear health and hearing support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-health-and-hearing-support)
    * [Eye health and vision support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)
    * [Chronic disease support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support)
    * [Medicare and medicines](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/medicare-and-medicines)
    * [Evaluations](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/evaluations)
  * [Lifestyle and family health support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support)
  * [Aged care support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/aged-care-support)
  * [Reporting](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)
  * [Research](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/research)
  * [News](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

