[Skip to Main Content](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-
health/healthcare-identifiers-framework-project/#page-content)

[ ![Department of Health and Aged Care
logo](https://consultations.health.gov.au/os-custom-
logos/dhac_100hreverse.png) ](https://www.health.gov.au/)

Toggle navigation Menu

Search

  * [Home](/)
  * [Find Activities](/consultation_finder/)
  * [We Asked, You Said, We Did](/we_asked_you_said/)

#  Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project Consultation

## Closed 28 Feb 2023

Opened 2 Dec 2022

## Contact

[HIFrameworkProject@Health.gov.au](mailto:HIFrameworkProject@Health.gov.au)

## Overview

The Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care (the Department)
is consulting with stakeholders to identify opportunities to amend the
Healthcare Identifiers Framework __ (the HI Framework) which includes the
__[_Healthcare Identifiers Act
2010_](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00492) __ (the Act), the
[_Healthcare Identifiers Regulations
2020_](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2020L01072) (the Regulations)
and the key policy settings for the Healthcare Identifiers Service (HI
Service), through the Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project (the Project).

The HI Framework enables the safe and secure connection of health information
across the Health sector by using unique identifiers for individuals,
providers and organisations. These identifiers are managed through the HI
Service which, along with the Framework, has been in place since 2010.

Healthcare Identifiers (HIs) have been used effectively to implement My Health
Record (MHR), and more recent digital initiatives such as electronic
prescribing. However, adoption of HIs beyond these services has been slow.
This is partly due to legislative and operational challenges.

The key objective of the Project is to align the Act and the HI Service with
our modern healthcare environment. This will enable the delivery of safe,
high-quality healthcare services and meet current and emerging strategic,
policy, program, and operational goals.

The Project aims to rapidly evolve Australia’s ability to connect health
information systems. It will do so by ensuring that HIs can and will be used
as the common identifiers across healthcare programs and services. This will
allow providers to accurately identify a healthcare recipient and send health
information securely between health services. In turn, this will:

  * reduce the burden on healthcare recipients, who will no longer need to retell key health information 
  * give healthcare providers access to much richer information about their patients at the point of care, improving patient outcomes. 

Widespread use of HIs will also increase researchers’ ability to connect and
analyse large quantities of de-identified data on health outcomes and usage.
The results of this research will guide planning and funding, for the benefit
of all Australians.

We are seeking the views of stakeholders on both legislative and non-
legislative mechanisms to improve the operation of the HI Service. We will use
the views to ensure that any proposed reforms are:

  * pragmatic, considered, and achievable
  * in the best interests of healthcare recipients, healthcare providers and the healthcare system more broadly. 

Through public consultation we aim to identify and validate key potential
changes to the HI Framework to support broader adoption of Healthcare
Identifiers. This will inform a set of recommendations that will inform a Bill
to be put to Parliament for consideration by mid-2024. ****

In responding to this consultation, you can move between sections to determine
which parts are most relevant to you. There are 12 sections in total, 4
related to background information and 8 related to key problem statements with
questions.

It is highly recommended that the background sections are read in full to
provide context to the consultation. These include:

  * Introduction
  * Background
  * The Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project
  * The consultation

Once you have viewed and/or completed a section, you will be directed back to
the main contents page to select the next section. Responses to questions will
be captured in open text fields. It is recommended responses are kept to a
maximum of 500 words per question. It is not mandatory to respond to all
questions.

You can save and come back to the consultation at any time to the close date.

If you would like to provide general comments not related to the questions you
can respond in the general feedback section.

Related materials have been provided to support participants and can be found
at the bottom of this page. These materials include:

  * Glossary and abbreviations
  * Appendices
  * Frequently asked answers and questions

In addition, several information webinars will be run throughout December,
January and February and details of the webinars can be found towards the end
of this page.

Please note that these webinars will be recorded.

## Why your views matter

Have your say, because enabling connected care digitally across health and
health related services results in improved patient outcomes.

Through public consultation we aim to identify and validate key potential
changes to the HI Framework to support broader adoption of Healthcare
Identifiers.

## What happens next

This public consultation will support us to identify and validate key
potential changes to the HI framework to enable the broad adoption of
Healthcare Identifiers. This will inform a set of recommendations which will
be provided to Parliament for consideration by mid 2024.

Responses to this consultation may be published at the discretion of the
Department and with permission of respondents. Submissions made after the
closing date of 28 February 2022 will not be considered.

## Events

  * ### Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project Public consultation Information Webinars

From 8 Feb 2023 at 14:00 to 8 Feb 2023 at 16:00

More information

An information webinar and Q&A for respondents to attend to find out more
about the public consultation and the identified problem statements. Please
follow the public consultation webinar link below to register.

[ Add to my Calendar (.ics)](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-
health/healthcare-identifiers-framework-project/events/hi-framework-public-
consultation-information/ics_view)

  * ### Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project Public Consultation Information Webinars

From 23 Feb 2023 at 14:00 to 23 Feb 2023 at 16:00

More information

An interactive webinar and Q&A for respondents to attend to find out more
about the public consultation and the identified problem statements. Please
follow the public consultation webinar link below to register.

[ Add to my Calendar (.ics)](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-
health/healthcare-identifiers-framework-project/events/hi-framework-public-
consultation-information-1/ics_view)

## Related

  * [ Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project Public consultation - Abbreviations and glossary.pdf ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-health/healthcare-identifiers-framework-project/supporting_documents/Healthcare%20Identifiers%20Framework%20Project%20Public%20consultation%20%20Abbreviations%20and%20glossary.pdf) 255.6 KB (PDF document)
  * [ Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project Public consultation - Appendices.pdf ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-health/healthcare-identifiers-framework-project/supporting_documents/Healthcare%20Identifiers%20Framework%20Project%20Public%20consultation%20%20Appendices.pdf) 241.4 KB (PDF document)
  * [ Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project Public consultation - Frequently asked questions.pdf ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-health/healthcare-identifiers-framework-project/supporting_documents/Healthcare%20Identifiers%20Framework%20Project%20Public%20consultation%20%20Frequently%20asked%20questions.pdf) 252.1 KB (PDF document)
  * [ Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project Public consultation.pdf ](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-health/healthcare-identifiers-framework-project/supporting_documents/Healthcare%20Identifiers%20Framework%20Project%20Public%20consultation.pdf) 768.2 KB (PDF document)

  * [ Healthcare Identifiers and the Healthcare Identifier Service ](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/healthcare-identifiers)
  * [ Services Australia Healthcare Identifiers ](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individual-healthcare-identifiers)
  * [ Office of the Australian Information Commissioner ](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/other-legislation/healthcare-identifiers)
  * [ Public Consultation Information webinar series ](https://health-au.webex.com/webappng/sites/health-au/webinar/webinarSeries/register/156ec65560c84528967b79f1c0daac97)
  * [ Public Consultation Webinar 15/12/22 Password: bNFTDtH3 ](https://health-au.webex.com/recordingservice/sites/health-au/recording/playback/ad63dcfd5e56103bb7f700505681f027)
  * [ Public Consultation Webinar 18/01/23 Password:cQd7YXKD ](https://health-au.webex.com/health-au/ldr.php?RCID=86342396b21f8d6abded98f1cb1e1790)
  * [ Public Consultation Webinar 08/02/23 Password: EwxK6XvS ](https://health-au.webex.com/recordingservice/sites/health-au/recording/playback/a8cc4ce1898a103b9cbe00505681b31a)
  * [ Public Consultation Webinar 23/02/23 Password: cC8K9mep ](https://health-au.webex.com/health-au/ldr.php?RCID=df19f6d94d2100e533c5064225837c98)

## Audiences

  * Anyone from any background

## Interests

  * Hospitals
  * e-Health
  * Health technology
  * Medicare
  * Legislation
  * Health insurance
  * Rural health services
  * Regulatory policy
  * Women's health
  * Children's health
  * Home Care
  * Aged Care
  * Residential Aged Care
  * Short-Term Restorative Care
  * Strategic Policy
  * Policy Development

## Share

[ Share on Twitter
](http://twitter.com/share?url=https%3A%2F%2Fconsultations.health.gov.au%2Fdigital-
health%2Fhealthcare-identifiers-framework-
project%2F&text=Have+a+look+at+this+consultation+from+%23citizenspace%3A
"Share on Twitter") [ Share on Facebook
](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fconsultations.health.gov.au%2Fdigital-
health%2Fhealthcare-identifiers-framework-project%2F "Share on Facebook")

  * [Accessibility](https://consultations.health.gov.au/accessibility_policy/)
  * [Terms of Use](https://consultations.health.gov.au/terms_and_conditions/)
  * [Cookies](https://consultations.health.gov.au/cookie_policy/)
  * [Privacy](https://consultations.health.gov.au/privacy_policy/)
  * [Help / feedback](https://consultations.health.gov.au/support/)

[Citizen Space](https://www.delib.net/citizen_space) from
[Delib](https://www.delib.net)

* * *

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

