Skip to Content

[ ![Home](/profiles/adha/themes/custom/adha_govcms/images/logo-white.svg) ](/
"Home")

### Developer Centre

  * [Log in](/user "Login")
  * [Register](/user/register "Register")

  * [Products](/products)
  * [What's happening](/whats-happening)
  * [Feedback](/webform/feedback "Feedback")
  * [Register](/user/register "Register")
  * [__](/search "Search Documents")

Enter your keywords

  * [Home](/home)
  * Electronic Prescribing

Go to top of page

![Electronic Prescribing
icon](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/sites/default/files/homeicon-
electronicprescribing.png)

# Electronic Prescribing

Electronic prescribing provides an option for prescribers and their patients
to have a digital prescription as an alternative to a paper prescription.
Electronic prescribing is not mandatory, and patients and prescribers will be
able to choose an electronic or a paper version of their prescription.

## Quick Intro

Through the 2018/19 Commonwealth Budget, the Government announced support for
the implementation of electronic prescribing. The Commonwealth Department of
Health and Aged Care (Health) is leading the work to enable electronic
prescribing and has overall accountability for the electronic prescribing
project. Health has partnered with the Australian Digital Health Agency (the
Agency) to develop the technical components of the project, including the
solution architecture and a conformance framework supporting the legal
prescribing and dispensing of medicines and subsequent Pharmaceutical Benefits
Scheme (PBS) claiming from electronic prescriptions.

## Developer Guides

Start with the Electronic Prescribing Conformance Process below - this
includes mandatory registration requirements and reading.

Introduction:  | [Electronic Prescribing Conformance Process](/electronic-
prescribing/conformance-process)  
---|---  
Guide 1: | [CIS to Open PDS or ASLR - Electronic Prescribing Developer
Guide](/developer-guide/conformance-process-clinical-information-systems-
connecting-open-prescription-delivery-service-aslr)  
Guide 2: | [PDS and ASLR - Electronic Prescribing Developer Guide](/developer-
guide/pds-and-aslr-electronic-prescribing-developer-guide)  
Guide 3: | [CIS with a Direct PDS - Electronic Prescribing Developer
Guide](/developer-guide/cis-direct-pds-electronic-prescribing-developer-guide)  
Guide 4: | [Additional HI Service requirements for Electronic
Prescribing](/developer-guide/electronic-prescribing-healthcare-identifiers-
hi-service-developer-guide-4)  
Guide 5: | [Mobile Intermediary System - Electronic Prescribing Conformance
Process - Developer Guide](/developer-guide/mobile-intermediary-system-
electronic-prescribing-conformance-process-developer-guide)  
Guide 6: | [Mobile Application - Electronic Prescribing Conformance Process -
Developer Guide](/developer-guide/mobile-application-electronic-prescribing-
conformance-process-developer-guide)  
  
If you are connecting your software to the My Health Record system then you
may wish to follow our combined developer guides here:  
[https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/developer-guide/my-health-
record-b2b-developer-guides](/developer-guide/my-health-record-b2b-developer-
guides)

## Resources

### [eHealth Prescription and Dispense View v1.2.2](/specifications/clinical-
documents/ep-1657-2014)

##### Specifications | EP-1657:2014

eHealth Prescription and Dispense View documents represent an electronic
summary of information about medication prescriptions and dispensations
contained in an individual’s My Health Record.

[](/tooltip/1169/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

### [eHealth Prescription Record v1.2.1](/specifications/clinical-
documents/ep-2689-2018)

##### Specifications | EP-2689:2018

eHealth prescription record documents can be used to share information about
prescribed medications via the individual’s digital health record. Documents
of this type do not represent actual prescriptions, but merely support the
sharing of information about medication prescriptions via the individual’s
digital health record.

[](/tooltip/3106/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

Featured

### [Electronic Prescribing - Conformance Test Specifications
v3.0.3](/specifications/ehealth-foundations/ep-3726-2022)

##### Specifications | EP-3726:2022

This release of the end product EP-3726:2022 updates Conformance Test
Specifications and test data for electronic prescribing software vendors. It
also includes instructions for Transitional eNRMC software vendors.

[](/tooltip/4825/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

Featured

### [Electronic Prescribing - Declaration of Conformance
v2.0](/specifications/ehealth-foundations/ep-3757-2023)

##### Specifications | EP-3757:2023

The Electronic Prescribing - Declaration of Conformance v2.0 has been
developed in consultation with key participants in the Electronic Prescribing
community to better address the requirements of the contemporary Conformance
Assessment Scheme (CAS).

[](/tooltip/4839/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

### [Electronic Prescribing - State and Territory Legislative Readiness and
Technical Requirements v2.3](/specifications/ehealth-foundations/ep-3285-2020)

##### Products, Specifications | EP-3285:2020

Each software developer needs to consider the jurisdictions they think their
software will operate in and consider the legal obligations for those
jurisdictions. Software developers are responsible for contacting their
relevant state and territory regulation authorities to attain this
information. This document has been developed and is maintained by the
Department of Health.

[](/tooltip/4377/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

Featured

### [Electronic Prescribing - Technical Framework Documents
v3.2](/specifications/ehealth-foundations/ep-3733-2022)

##### Specifications | EP-3733:2022

These technical framework documents are provided to software vendors and
demonstrate what is required to enable electronic prescribing.

[](/tooltip/4778/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

### [Electronic Prescribing – Frequently Asked
Questions](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions)

##### FAQs, Industry Offers, Products

The following Electronic Prescribing Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are
categorised into the following topics: General, Dispensing and Technical
Questions along with a Glossary and links to more information.

### [Electronic Transfer of Prescription](/products/electronic-transfer-
prescription)

##### Products

Electronic Transfer of Prescription (ETP) involves the creation of an
electronic message (alongside a legal paper prescription) which is transmitted
to a prescription exchange service (PES).

### [Draft Interoperability Procurement Guidelines – request for Industry
feedback](/resources/news/draft-interoperability-procurement-guidelines-
request-industry-feedback)

##### Industry Offers

The Agency is very keen to understand and get feedback from the medical
software industry on some key topics within the Guidelines.

Tuesday, 6 September 2022

### [eHealth Dispense Record v1.2.1](/specifications/clinical-
documents/ep-2690-2018)

##### Specifications | EP-2690:2018

eHealth Dispense Record documents can be used to share information about
medication dispensations via the individual’s digital health record.

[](/tooltip/3111/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

### [Electronic Prescribing - Archive](/products/electronic-prescribing)

##### Industry Offers, Products, Sample Code, Specifications, Toolkits

**Archive - for the latest on Electronic Prescribing refer to:**

[https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/electronic-prescribing](/electronic-
prescribing)

### [Electronic Prescribing – Industry Offer](/resources/articles/electronic-
prescribing-industry-offer)

##### Industry Offers

**Further information** **about the Electronic Prescribing Industry Offer**

The Electronic Prescribing Industry Offer- second round is now closed and all
tenderers have been notified of the outcome.

### [Electronic Transfer of Prescription v1.1](/specifications/clinical-
documents/ep-0938-2010)

##### Specifications | EP-0938:2010

The Agency’s Electronic Transfer of Prescriptions (ETP) Release 1.1 has been
archived on this website, but is still available for download.

[](/tooltip/1168/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

### [eMedications Management Functional Framework
v1.1](/specifications/ehealth-foundations/ep-2121-2015)

##### Specifications | EP-2121:2015

The eMedications Management (eMM) Functional Framework outlines the key
capabilities within medications management business systems. It can be used to
identify opportunities and gaps in medications management process automation,
system integration, information quality and terminology standardisation.

[](/tooltip/1126/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

### [Pharmacist Shared Medicines List v1.1.1](/specifications/clinical-
documents/ep-2924-2020)

##### Specifications | EP-2924:2020

PSML documents help ensure the continuity of medicine management for consumers
across different care settings. PSML documents allow pharmacists in both
hospital and community pharmacy settings to record the outcome of consumer
consultations regarding their current medications for upload to the My Health
Record system.

[](/tooltip/4291/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472 "Quick preview")[Login to
download](/user/modal-login/nojs?destination=taxonomy/term/472)

## FAQs

Electronic Prescribing – Frequently Asked Questions:

  * [General Questions](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#General)
  * [Prescribing Systems](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Prescribing-Systems)
  * [Dispensing Systems](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Dispensing%20Systems)
  * [Mobile Applications](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Mobile%20Applications)
  * [Mobile Intermediaries](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Mobile%20Intermediaries)
  * [Transitional eNRMC and Conformance Profile 3.0](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Transitional%20eNRMC%20and%20Conformance%20Profile%203.0)
    * [General Questions](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Transitional-eNRMC-and-Conformance-Profile-3.0-General)
    * [Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service and Electronic Prescribing](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Healthcare%20Identifiers%20\(HI\)%20Service%20and%20Electronic%20Prescribing)
    * [eNRMC and Electronic Prescribing](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#eNRMC%20and%20Electronic%20Prescribing)
    * [Other Conformance Profile 3.0 Questions](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Other%20Conformance%20Profile%203.0%20questions)
    * [Useful links](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Useful%20links)
  * [Conformance Process Questions](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Conformance-Process)
  * [Glossary](/resources/faqs/electronic-prescribing-frequently-asked-questions#Glossary)

## News

Mar

27

####  [Electronic Prescribing Sunset Dates for Conformance
Profiles](/resources/news/electronic-prescribing-sunset-dates-conformance-
profiles)

The Australian Digital Health Agency (the Agency) has published a series of
Electronic Prescribing (EP) Conformance Profiles (CP) with incremental
increases in functionality.

Feb

10

####  [Continuation of SMS reimbursement and the Electronic Prescription
Fee](/resources/news/continuation-sms-reimbursement-and-electronic-
prescription-fee)

On behalf of the Department of Health and Aged Care, the Australian Digital
Health Agency advises that the reimbursements of electronic prescription
tokens sent via SMS will be extended until _30 June 2023,_ via the existing
SMS Gateway providers.

Jun

30

####  [Electronic Prescriptions Conformance Profile Sunset
dates](/resources/news/electronic-prescriptions-conformance-profile-sunset-
dates)

In response to feedback received and in recognition of the current state of
development progress, the Agency has extended the sunset dates.

Apr

05

####  [Discontinuation of TLS 1.1 access to Verizon certificates-australia
websites](/resources/news/discontinuation-tls-11-access-verizon-certificates-
australia-websites)

**NOTE DATE CHANGE: The upgrade will now take place on Saturday 25 June
2022.**

Verizon Australia is a third party organisation who manages the issuance of
both Medicare and NASH PKI certificates that are used by Healthcare
Organisations to undertake electronic business with Services Australia.

Sep

20

####  [Transition to NASH SHA-2 Certificates -
Notifications](/resources/news/system-notifications-transition-nash-
sha-2-certificates)

**Changes to the National Authentication Service for Health (NASH) PKI
certificates** \- The Australian Digital Health Agency has been working
closely with Services Australia and the medical software industry to upgrade
the NASH authentication system to enhance security when accessing digital
health services.

Was this page helpful? (*)

Yes

No

Was this page helpful?

Comments

A description can go here. 1024 character limit.

By operation of the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
_(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012 (Cth), formerly
called the Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012 (Cth)_.

Stay Connected

with the Australian Digital Health Agency

Register to download resources and keep informed of the latest Developer News.

[Register](/user/register)

### Resources

  * [My Health Record](/my-health-record)
  * [Electronic Prescribing](/products/electronic-prescribing)
  * [Secure Messaging](/products/secure-messaging)
  * [Healthcare Identifiers](/healthcare-identifiers-service)
  * [Clinical Terminology](/products/clinical-terminology)
  * [View all](/products)

### Help Centre

  * 1300 901 001
  * [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#660e030a1626020f010f12070a0e03070a120e48010910480713 "Contact us via email")
  * [System Status](/system-status)
  * [Terms of Use](/developer-centre-terms-use)
  * [Privacy](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)

### Connect

  * [__](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth "Follow us on Twitter")
  * [__](https://www.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency "Linked In Profile")
  * [__](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus "Subscribe to our YouTube channel")
  * [__](/rss.xml "Access our RSS feed")

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve Digital Health

[Provide feedback](/webform/feedback)

[Australian Digital Health Agency ![logo of the Australian Digital Health
Agency](/profiles/adha/themes/custom/govstrap/img/logo-white.svg) ](/
"Australian Digital Health Agency")

Copyright © 2011-2023 Australian Digital Health Agency and third parties.

This website has been designed to be as accessible as possible. We are
continually updating it to meet [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)
2.0 Level AA](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/ "WCAG").

If you have any problems using this site, or a document you need is not in an
accessible format, [email us or call
us](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/contact-us "Email or call Australian
Digital Health").

Back to Top __

