Skip to navigation Skip to content

  * __Follow
    * [__RSS](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/xml/rssLatestNews.xml)

Search __ Search

Search All  Search Item numbers only

[Department of Health and Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Department of
Health and Aged Care")
![](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

Medicare Benefits Schedule

Search __ Search

Search All  Search Item numbers only

  * [__ Home](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [The MBS __](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/the-mbs)
    * [Search](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/search.cfm)
    * [Create publication](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/createPublication.cfm)
    * [Downloads](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/downloads)
    * [A-Z index](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/a-z)
  * [About the MBS __](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/about-the-mbs)
    * [News](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/news)
    * [Fact Sheets](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Factsheet-Current)
    * [Subscribe](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/subscribe.cfm)
  * [Help __](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/help)
    * [FAQ's](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/faqs)
    * [MBS interpretation](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/MBS-interpretation)

# MBS Online

MBS Online contains the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS), a listing of the
Medicare services subsidised by the Australian Government.

 __Page last updated: 05 April 2023

The Schedule is part of the wider Medicare Benefits Scheme managed by the
Australian Government Department of Health and administered by Services
Australia. MBS Online contains the latest MBS information and is updated as
changes to the MBS occur.

## Coronavirus (COVID-19) information

Information on how the Australian Government is monitoring and responding to
the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic is available on the [Health Coronavirus
(COVID-19) webpage](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
alerts/covid-19?language=und).

## Telehealth Information

From **1 January 2022,** patient access to telehealth services have been
supported by continued MBS arrangements. The continued arrangements build on
the temporary telehealth items introduced as part of the Government's response
to the COVID-19 pandemic, and will continue to enable all Medicare eligible
Australians to access telehealth (video and phone) services for a range of
(out of hospital) consultations that can also be provided in person.

MBS telehealth items will continue to be available to GPs, medical
practitioners, specialists, consultant physicians, nurse practitioners,
participating midwives, allied health providers and dental practitioners in
the practice of oral and maxillofacial surgery.  
  
Further information can be found on the [MBS Telehealth Services](Factsheet-
Telehealth-Updates-April%202023) page.  

## MBS Reviews Taskforce

The [MBS Review Taskforce](https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/mbs-
review?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-
custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation) has considered how more than 5,700
Medicare services can be aligned with contemporary clinical evidence and
practice and improve health outcomes for patients. The Taskforce held its last
meeting on 30 June 2020. The Department is continuing to undertake the
implementation process.

## Medical Costs Finder

The [Medicare Costs Finder](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-
tools/medical-costs-finder) is an online tool. It lets you find out more about
the cost of specialist medical services. It covers common services in and out
of hospital that patients want to know more about. We will continue to add
more services over time.The tool’s results are based on the most recent
publicly available Government data about what people have paid for medical
services.

## AskMBS Email Advice Service for Providers

AskMBS responds to enquiries from providers of services listed on the MBS
seeking advice on interpretation of MBS items (including those for dental,
pathology and diagnostic imaging), explanatory notes and associated
legislation. This advice is primarily to assist health professionals, practice
managers and others to understand and comply with MBS billing requirements.

If you are seeking advice in relation to Medicare billing, claiming, payments
or obtaining a provider number, please contact Services Australia on the
Provider Enquiry Line - 13 21 50.

If you have a query relating exclusively to interpretation of the Schedule,
you should email[ _askmbs@health.gov.au_](mailto:askmbs@health.gov.au).

AskMBS also have an [Advisories
page](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/askmbs-
advisories?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-
custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation) summarising responses to
frequently asked questions on specific subject areas.

  
  

## __News

[ More News __](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/news)

[July 2023 News](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/news-230701)

[January 2023 News](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/news-230101)

[March 2023 News](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/news-230301)

[November 2022 News](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/news-221101)

[ Listen ](http://app.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.mbsonline.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmbsonline%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2FHome%3FOpen%3D%26utm_source%3Dhealth.gov.au%26utm_medium%3Dredirect%26utm_campaign%3Ddigital_transformation%26utm_content%3Dmbsonline
"Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker")

### [Search the MBS](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/search.cfm)

### [News](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/news)

### [Fact Sheets](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/factsheet-
current)

### [Downloads](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/downloads)

## Popular

  * Subscribe

Subscribe to us

Enter your email address

* * *

Subscribe

# MBS Online

[MBS Online](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## Home

  * [Accessibility](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Accessibility)
  * [Privacy](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security)
  * [Disclaimer](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/copyright)

## The MBS

  * [Search](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/search.cfm)
  * [Create publication ](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/createPublication.cfm)
  * [Downloads](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/downloads)
  * [A-Z index](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/a-z)

## About the MBS

  * [News](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/news)
  * [Fact Sheets](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/factsheet-current)
  * [Subscribe](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/subscribe.cfm)

## Help

  * [FAQ's](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/faqs)
  * [MBS interpretation](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/MBS-interpretation)

### Follow us

  * [__RSS](/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/rss/$FILE/mbsonline.xml)

