Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Medical Treatment Overseas Program

The Medical Treatment Overseas Program (MTOP) helps approved Australians who
have a life-threatening medical condition access life-saving medical treatment
overseas where treatment is not available in Australia.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medical Treatment Overseas Program&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medical-treatment-overseas-program?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medical-treatment-overseas-program?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medical Treatment Overseas Program&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medical-treatment-overseas-program?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)

Loading...

On this page

## About the program

The program covers the cost of the approved treatment, airfares and
accommodation for approved Australians who need life-saving medical treatment
that’s only available overseas. It covers the costs of:

  * hospital accommodation and services related to the approved medical treatment
  * travel costs including airfares, passport fees and travel insurance
  * accommodation costs before and after hospitalisation
  * carer travel and accommodation expenses (automatic for those aged under 18 years, or as approved if medically required for adults).

## Why it is important

This program ensures Australians with a life-threatening condition may be able
to access life-saving treatment they need, even if it is not available in
Australia. This can save or significantly extend their life.

## Eligibility

To be eligible for the program you must:

  * live in Australia
  * be [eligible for Medicare benefits](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/general-eligibility-requirements-to-access-medicare-benefits?context=34076)
  * have a life-threatening condition
  * provide evidence you meet the 4 medical criteria.

### Medical criteria

  1. The proposed overseas treatment or an effective alternative treatment are not available in Australia, and won’t be available in time to benefit you.
  2. The overseas treatment will either significantly extend your life or potentially cure your condition.
  3. The overseas treatment has a real prospect of being successful.
  4. The Australian medical profession accepts the overseas treatment as a standard form of treatment for your condition.

## **What’s not eligible**

The program does not cover travel overseas to:

  * get medical advice or a medical assessment
  * receive experimental treatments
  * take part in clinical trials
  * receive treatments for conditions that are not life threatening
  * receive an organ transplant
  * get palliative care that does not aim to cure the disease.

[ ![Cover image for Medical Treatment Overseas Program – Guidelines for
applicants](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2022-12/medical-
treatment-overseas-program-guidelines-for-applicants_0.png?itok=NEL2GwDY)
](/resources/publications/medical-treatment-overseas-program-guidelines-for-
applicants)

###  [Medical Treatment Overseas Program – Guidelines for applicants
](/resources/publications/medical-treatment-overseas-program-guidelines-for-
applicants?language=en)

These guidelines provide information about the Medical Treatment Overseas
Program. This includes who is eligible, what assistance the program provides,
how to apply, and how the assessment process works.

## Apply

To apply for the program you must:

  * complete and sign the application form – it must be for a specific treatment of a specified life-threatening condition
  * provide advice from your specialist confirming that 
    * the treatment you are applying to get overseas is not available in Australia
    * no other effective treatments are available in Australia
  * ensure your specialist signs the application form
  * ensure your specialist provides supporting medical documentation, including clinical evidence that show the 
    * condition is life threatening
    * treatment has a real chance of curing you or significantly extending your life
    * treatment has a strong chance of success
    * Australian medical profession accepts the treatment as standard for your condition.

If you are applying for proton beam radiation therapy, your specialist
**must** provide comparative proton versus photon plans. Photon therapy is
available in Australia and may be effective for applicants requiring
radiotherapy.

A panel of medical advisers will assess your application to confirm whether
you meet the 4 medical criteria, and then a recommendation will be made to the
Delegate to the MTOP as to whether the application is approved or not. Allow a
minimum of 6 weeks for us to process your application.

When completing your application form, read the guidelines for applicants to
make sure you include all the required information and documentation.

We will not assess your application if:

  * you are not eligible for Medicare
  * your Australian treating medical specialist hasn’t signed the application
  * you haven’t provided a treatment plan
  * the proposed treatment is not for a life-threatening condition
  * the treatment is palliative rather than curative
  * you haven’t provided enough medical and clinical information
  * you have applied for treatment that’s not eligible
  * when applying for proton beam radiation therapy, you have not provided a comparison plan with photon therapy.

[ ![Cover image for Medical Treatment Overseas Program – Application
form](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2022-12/medical-
treatment-overseas-program-application-form_0.png?itok=qZx4exPq)
](/resources/publications/medical-treatment-overseas-program-application-form)

###  [Medical Treatment Overseas Program – Application form
](/resources/publications/medical-treatment-overseas-program-application-
form?language=en)

Use this form to apply for financial support under the Medical Treatment
Overseas Program. The program covers the cost of approved treatment, airfares
and accommodation for approved Australians with a life-threatening condition
who need life-saving medical treatment that’s only available overseas.

## Review

Aspex Consulting did an independent review of the program in 2020 to determine
the program's effectiveness.

Advice is being prepared for the government for its consideration in relation
to the report and the findings of the Review. The release of the report, and
any response to it, will be a matter for the government to decide.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Medical Treatment Overseas Program contact ](/contacts/medical-
treatment-overseas-program-contact?language=en)

Contact us for information about the Medical Treatment Overseas Program or to
apply for financial assistance under the program.

[MTOP@health.gov.au](mailto:MTOP@health.gov.au)

[02 6289 7496](tel:02 6289 7496)

Last updated:

7 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

