Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)

[About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)

# What Medicare covers

Medicare subsidises a large number of health services and products. You can
use your Medicare card to access medical services, hospital services for
public patients, surgical services, prescription medicines, eye tests,
pathology tests, imaging and scans.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What Medicare covers&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What Medicare covers&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)

Loading...

On this page

## **What is covered**

Medicare subsidises the costs of:

  * [services delivered in public and private hospitals](/node/40415#hospital-services)
  * [medical services](/node/40415#medical-services)
  * [tests, imaging and scans](/node/40415#tests-imaging-and-scans).

The [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS)
subsidises [medicines](/node/40415#medicines) for people with a Medicare card.

If you and your healthcare provider have opted in, you can use [My Health
Record](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/) to keep track of your health care,
tests results and medicines.

Read about [accessing Medicare benefits](/node/39417#how-to-access-medicare).

### **Hospital services**

If you’re a public patient in a hospital Medicare subsidises things like:

  * emergency care
  * most surgeries and procedures (there might be a wait time if it’s not an emergency)
  * medicines provided to you in hospital
  * follow-up care.

Read more about [hospital under
Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/health-care-and-
medicare?context=60092#hospital) and [hospital costs](/node/40784#hospital-
costs).

The [Medicare Benefits
Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
(MBS) lists all the hospital services with MBS item numbers that Medicare
covers.

For private patients, while Medicare covers some of the doctor’s fees,, it
doesn’t cover hospital charges like accommodation and theatre fees. [Private
health insurance](https://privatehealth.gov.au/) can help cover these costs,
if you have it.

### **Medical services**

A wide range of medical services are subsidised under Medicare through the
MBS.

Medical services that Medicare subsidises include:

  * [consultations with health practitioners](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/health-care-and-medicare?context=60092), like general practitioners, specialists and other health practitioners – in person or via [telehealth](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/telehealth)
  * [mental health services](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/mental-health-care-and-medicare?context=60092), including mental health assessments, treatment plans and medicines
  * [health checks](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mha_resource_kit)
  * some dental procedures, under the [Child Dental Benefits Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/child-dental-benefits-schedule).

Read more about [health care under
Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/health-care-and-
medicare?context=60092).

Not all health practitioners [bulk
bill](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/bulk-billing?context=60092). When
you make your appointment, check how much you will have to pay, if anything.

Read more about [medical services costs](/node/40784#medical-services-costs).

### **Tests, imaging and scans**

#### **Diagnostic imaging**

Medicare, through the MBS, covers many [diagnostic
imaging](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/diagnostic-imaging) services,
such as:

  * [magnetic resonance imaging](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/search.cfm?cat1=89&cat2=115&cat3=&adv=) (MRI)
  * [nuclear medicine scans](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/search.cfm?cat1=89&cat2=114&cat3=&adv=) like [positron emission tomography](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/search.cfm?cat1=89&cat2=114&cat3=1017&adv=) (PET)
  * [ultrasounds](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/search.cfm?cat1=89&cat2=90&cat3=&adv=)
  * [computed tomography](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/search.cfm?cat1=89&cat2=95&cat3=&adv=) (CT) scans
  * x‑rays.

To be eligible for a Medicare rebate, MRI and PET scans must:

  * have item numbers listed on the [MBS](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/)
  * have been [referred by a health practitioner](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/what-is-a-referral)
  * be provided by an [accredited provider](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/standards/diagnostic-imaging/diagnostic-imaging-accreditation-scheme)
  * be done on [eligible equipment](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/diagnostic-imaging/mri-and-pet-locations) – not all MRI machines are eligible.

You can request to go to a provider of your choice, as long as they meet these
criteria. Not all imaging and scan providers [bulk
bill](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/bulk-billing?context=60092). When
you make your appointment, check with the provider how much you will have to
pay, if anything.

Read more about [imaging and scans under
Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/screening-tests-and-scans-
covered-medicare?context=60092).

#### **Pathology tests**

Medicare, through the MBS, covers pathology tests – such as blood, urine or
tissue – to screen for, diagnose or monitor disease.

If your GP requests more than 3 tests on the same day, Medicare will only pay
for the 3 most expensive tests.

There is no limit on the amount of tests a specialist can request.

Not all pathology labs [bulk bill](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/bulk-
billing?context=60092), but many do. Before you go, check with them how much
you will have to pay, if anything.

Read more about [pathology tests under
Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/screening-tests-and-scans-
covered-medicare?context=60092#a2) and [how pathology tests
work](https://www.labtestsonline.org.au/).

#### **Eye tests**

Medicare covers [eye tests](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/screening-
tests-and-scans-covered-medicare?context=60092#a3) done by an optometrist:

  * once every 3 years if you’re under 65 years
  * once a year if you’re 65 years or older. 

Medicare does not cover glasses or contact lenses, but you might be able to
access [state or territory schemes](/node/40415#support-from-other-programs).

Not all optometrists [bulk bill](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/bulk-
billing?context=60092). Check with them when you make your appointment.

Read more about [eye tests under
Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/screening-tests-and-scans-
covered-medicare?context=60092#a3).

### **Medicines**

The [PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) subsidises a wide range of
prescription medicines.

While many non-PBS medicines are available for purchase over the counter,
there are [other ways to access](/topics/medicines/access/other-ways-to-access
"Other ways to access medicines") subsidised medicines if they are not on the
PBS.

The [National Immunisation Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/national-immunisation-program) covers the cost of vaccines to
eligible Australians.

Read more about [medicines](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/medicines)
and [their cost](/node/40784#medicine-costs).

## **What isn’t covered**

Medicare does not cover the costs of:

  * ambulance services
  * most dental services
  * glasses and contact lenses
  * hearing devices
  * elective and cosmetic surgery
  * services not on the [MBS](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/)
  * services provided through the private health system.

If you have [private health insurance](https://privatehealth.gov.au/), it
might cover some of the costs that Medicare doesn’t cover, depending on your
policy.

Medicare doesn’t cover your healthcare costs overseas – you will need travel
insurance. But countries that have a [Reciprocal Health Care
Agreement](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/reciprocal-health-care-
agreements?context=60040) with us may cover some of your costs.

## **Support from other programs**

You might be eligible for free or subsidised medical services and products not
covered by Medicare through the:

  * [BreastScreen Australia Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/breastscreen-australia-program), which provides a free mammogram every 2 years to women aged 40 years and over
  * [Closing the Gap PBS Co-payment Program](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/publication/factsheets/closing-the-gap-pbs-co-payment-measure), which reduces the cost of PBS medicines for eligible patients, who can get their medicines free or at the concession price
  * [Continence Aids Payment Scheme](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/continence-aids-payment-scheme), which helps with the cost of continence products
  * Department of Veterans’ Affairs [optical services](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/injury-or-health-treatments/health-services/optical-services), which provides free optical services to veterans who hold a gold card or white card
  * [Hearing Services Program](https://hearingservices.gov.au/), which provides subsidised hearing services and devices to eligible Australians with hearing loss
  * [Life Saving Drugs Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/life-saving-drugs-program), which pays for specific essential medicines to treat patients with rare and life-threatening diseases.
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas Program](/our-work/medical-treatment-overseas-program "Medical Treatment Overseas Program"), which provides financial assistance to approved applicants to travel overseas for life-saving treatment.
  * [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program), which sends a free screening test every 2 years to Australians aged 50 to 74 years that they can do at home
  * [National Cervical Screening Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/national-cervical-screening-program), which provides a free cervical screening test every 5 years to women aged 25 to 74 years
  * [National Diabetes Services Scheme](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/national-diabetes-services-scheme-ndss), which helps people with diabetes to understand and manage their life with diabetes, and provides timely, reliable and affordable access to the NDSS support services and products
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home), which provides timely, reliable and affordable access to necessary medicines for Australians
  * [Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/help-cover-healthcare-costs/manage-medicine-and-keep-costs-down/concessional#what-is-the-repatriation-pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme), which provides eligible people with access to a wide range of medicines and wound care items at a concession rate
  * [Stoma Appliance Scheme](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/stoma-appliance-scheme), which provides free stoma products to members of Australian stoma associations 
  * [Visiting Optometrist Scheme](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation#outreach-services), which supports optometrists to deliver services in remote and very remote locations
  * state or territory-based schemes for glasses and contact lenses 
    * Australian Capital Territory – [Spectacles Subsidy Scheme](https://www.revenue.act.gov.au/community-assistance/spectacles-subsidy-scheme)
    * New South Wales – [NSW Spectacles program](https://www.visionaustralia.org/referral/benefits-and-funding/nsw-spectacles)
    * Northern Territory – [spectacles concessions](https://nt.gov.au/community/concessions-and-payments/nt-concession-scheme/concessions/spectacles)
    * Queensland – [Spectacle Supply Scheme](https://www.health.qld.gov.au/mass/prescribe/spectacles)
    * South Australia – [GlassesSA](https://www.sa.gov.au/topics/care-and-support/concessions/health-concessions/glassessa)
    * Tasmania – [spectacles assistance](https://www.concessions.tas.gov.au/search?mode=results&queries_site_content_query=spectacles&x=0&y=0)
    * Victoria – [Victorian Eye Care Service](https://services.dffh.vic.gov.au/eye-care-and-glasses)
    * Western Australia – [Spectacle Subsidy Scheme](https://www.healthywa.wa.gov.au/Articles/S_T/Spectacle-Subsidy-Scheme).

Last updated:

12 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
    * [What Medicare covers](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers)
    * [Costs](/topics/medicare/about/costs)
    * [Safety nets](/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets)
    * [What we do](/topics/medicare/about/what-we-do)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

