![web](https://content.powerapps.com/resource/powerappsportal/img/web.png)

You’re offline. This is a read only version of the page.

![close](https://content.powerapps.com/resource/powerappsportal/img/close.png)

[ ![The Department of Health and Aged Care](/DHAC.svg)

# Health Products Portal

](/)

  *   *   * 

Menu

Close

  * [ Home ](/ "Home")
  * [ User support ](/search/?logicalNames=knowledgearticle&q=User%2BSupport)
  * [ Webinars ](/webinars/?id=a5be77cb-b39e-4c5e-a3bd-75ba23707b2a "Webinars")
  * [ Terms and Conditions ](/termsandcondition/?id=a20dfef2-0e27-46a6-85e2-51a568ddd3b9 "Terms and Conditions")

[Sign in]( https://business.health.gov.au/SignIn)

user:  
userid:  
representing:  

Health Products Portal

The Health Products Portal (HPP) provides a single digital channel for
industry to interact with us about regulated and reimbursed health-related
products and services. See __[What can I use the HPP
for](/hppusefor/?id=2432cc1b-873f-47d7-a637-285114bd3c7f)__ to view a current
list of HPP services.

**[Go to the HPP](https://business.health.gov.au/SignIn)**

##

About the HPP

We launched the HPP in October 2019, focusing on the pharmaceutical industry
and management of items on the PBS. We are expanding the HPP to digitise and
simplify the processes to apply, track, pay and manage regulated and
reimbursed health related products and services listed on the:

  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS)
    * Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC)
  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) (MBS)
    * Medical Services Advisory Committee (MSAC)
  * [Prostheses List](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list) (PL)
    * Prostheses List Advisory Committee (PLAC)
  * [National Immunisation Program](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/immunisation-throughout-life/national-immunisation-program-schedule) (NIP)
    * Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI)

The HPP aligns to the Australian Government’s Digital Service Standard. We
also develop the HPP in consultation with industry groups and end users
(through user research and beta testing activities) as part of a user-centred
approach.

##

HPP Support

Contact us if you need help with the Health Products Portal (HPP) or have a
suggestion for improvement. HPP uses the Australian Government Digital
Identity System to verify users. [myGovID](http://www.mygovid.gov.au/setup) is
the Australian Government’s Digital Identity app. Download it to your smart
device, enter your details and verify your identity. Once set up, link your
Digital Identity, such as myGovID to an organisation using [Relationship
Authorisation Manager (RAM)](https://info.authorisationmanager.gov.au/get-
started) to access the HPP.

**[HPP Support](mailto:HPP.Support@health.gov.au)**
**[myGovID](https://www.mygovid.gov.au/)**

### User support

Find the latest information on using the HPP and answering your questions.

[ ](/search/?logicalNames=knowledgearticle&q=User%2BSupport)

### Webinars

Attend an Industry Webinar to learn more about navigating the HPP.

[ ](/webinars/?id=a5be77cb-b39e-4c5e-a3bd-75ba23707b2a "Webinars")

### Terms and Conditions

View the Terms and Conditions of the HPP.

[ ](/termsandcondition/?id=a20dfef2-0e27-46a6-85e2-51a568ddd3b9 "Terms and
Conditions")

**Last Updated:** 20 May, 2022

### About Health

  * [About Health](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers)
  * [Careers](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi)
  * [Portfolio agencies](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/who-we-are/our-portfolio)
  * [Contact us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Directory](https://www.health.gov.au/contacts)

### About the HPP

  * [About us](/ "About us")
  * [ HPP User support ](/search/?logicalNames=knowledgearticle&q=User%2BSupport)
  * [ HPP Webinars ](/webinars/?id=a5be77cb-b39e-4c5e-a3bd-75ba23707b2a "HPP Webinars")
  * [ HPP Terms and Conditions ](/termsandcondition/?id=a20dfef2-0e27-46a6-85e2-51a568ddd3b9 "HPP Terms and Conditions")
  * [Sign in](https://business.health.gov.au/SignIn)
  * [Contact us](mailto:HPP.Support@health.gov.au)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](mailto:HPP.Support@health.gov.au "Provide feedback")

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

Back to top

