Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

[ ![Australia Government Department of Health and Aged Care](

                  ../images/DoHCrest-white.png
  ) ![Health Workforce Data](../images/hwd-icon-light.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [Using our website](../using-our-website/using.html)
  * [Contact Us](../contactus)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](../)
  * [Data Tool](../datatool)
  * [Resources](../resources)
  * [HeaDS UPP](../headsupp)

## You are here

  1. [Home](../)
  2. Resources

# Resources

  * Print 
  * Share 

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?url=https://hwd.health.gov.au/resources)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://hwd.health.gov.au/resources)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Health Workforce Data&body=https://hwd.health.gov.au/resources)

Publications, Dashboards, Data, Information and more

### Resource Type

Click on a resource type to filter the list

  * ![](../assets/icons/fontawesome/all/solid/book.svg)

###  Publications

  * ![](../assets/icons/fontawesome/all/solid/poll.svg)

###  Dashboards

  * ![](../assets/icons/fontawesome/all/solid/columns.svg)

###  Data

  * ![](../assets/icons/fontawesome/all/solid/info.svg)

###  Information

###  Filter results

You can narrow down the results using the filters

Publication Type

Factsheet

Report

Workforce Survey

Topic

Medical Education and Training

Nursing and Midwifery

Medical

General Practice

Allied Health Professionals

Year

2021

2020

2019

2018

2017

2016

2015

Resources Filtered results

  * [ ](./data/summary-state.html)

## [Summary Statistics, State](./data/summary-state.html)

15 Feb 2023

data

Summary Statistics for all registered professions by state, populated with
statistics from the Health Workforce Data Tool using the National Health
Workforce Dataset (NHWDS)

  * [ ](./data/summary-remote.html)

## [Summary Statistics, Remoteness Area](./data/summary-remote.html)

15 Feb 2023

data

Summary Statistics for all registered professions by remoteness area,
populated with statistics from the Health Workforce Data Tool using the
National Health Workforce Dataset (NHWDS)

  * [ ](./data/summary-mmm.html)

## [Summary Statistics, Modified Monash Model](./data/summary-mmm.html)

15 Feb 2023

data

Summary Statistics for all registered professions by Modified Monash Model,
populated with statistics from the Health Workforce Data Tool using the
National Health Workforce Dataset (NHWDS)

  * [ ](./data/summary-all.html)

## [Summary Statistics, All Professions](./data/summary-all.html)

15 Feb 2023

data

Summary Statistics for all registered professions, populated with statistics
from the Health Workforce Data Tool using the National Health Workforce
Dataset (NHWDS)

  * [ ](./dashboards/nhwds-alld-factsheets.html)

## [Dashboard, Allied Health Factsheets](./dashboards/nhwds-alld-
factsheets.html)

15 February 2023

dashboards

Factsheet for Allied Health Practitioners

  * [ ](./information/methods-gp-workload.html)

## [Method papers for counting General Practitioners delivering primary care
services](./information/methods-gp-workload.html)

2 Feb 2023

information

Information on the way general practitioners are counted including Full Time
Equivalent (FTE) and calculating their work effort providing primary care
services

  * [ ](./data/gp-primarycare.html)

## [General Practice Workforce providing Primary Care services in
Australia](./data/gp-primarycare.html)

2 February 2023

data

Statistics on General Practitioners providing primary care services through
the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)

  * [ ](./publications/survey-mdcl-2021.html)

## [Survey, Medical Practitioners 2021](./publications/survey-mdcl-2021.html)

9 Dec 2022

publications

Sample Surveys for Medical Practitioners 2021

  * [ ](./data/summary-mdcl.html)

## [Summary Statistics, Medical Profession](./data/summary-mdcl.html)

9 Dec 2022

data

Summary Statistics for the Medical Profession, populated with statistics from
the Health Workforce Data Tool using the National Health Workforce Dataset
(NHWDS)

  * [ ](./dashboards/nhwds-mdcl-factsheets.html)

## [Dashboard, Medical Factsheets](./dashboards/nhwds-mdcl-factsheets.html)

9 December 2022

dashboards

Factsheet for Medical Practitioners

  * [ ](./information/nhwds.html)

## [National Health Workforce Dataset](./information/nhwds.html)

5 Oct 2022

information

Information on the National Health Workforce Dataset (NHWDS)

  * [ ](./dashboards/met.html)

## [Dashboard, Medical Education and Training](./dashboards/met.html)

28 Jun 2022

dashboards

Dashboards from the MET (Medical Education and Training report)

  * [ ](./information/metinformation.html)

## [Medical Education and Training (MET) Data
Collection](./information/metinformation.html)

27 June 2022

information

Information on the Medical Education and Training Data Collection(s)

  * [ ](./data/summary-nrmw.html)

## [Summary Statistics, Nursing and Midwifery Professions](./data/summary-
nrmw.html)

22 Jun 2022

data

Summary Statistics for the Nursing and Midwifery Professions, populated with
statistics from the Health Workforce Data Tool using the National Health
Workforce Dataset (NHWDS)

  * [ ](./dashboards/nhwds-nursing-factsheets.html)

## [Dashboard, Nursing and Midwifery Dashboards](./dashboards/nhwds-nursing-
factsheets.html)

22 June 2022

dashboards

Factsheet for Nursing and Midwifery

  * [ ](./dashboards/nhwds-summary-metrics.html)

## [Dashboard, Summary Statistics - Metrics](./dashboards/nhwds-summary-
metrics.html)

11 Oct 2021

dashboards

Summary Statistics for all registered professions, populated with statistics
from the Health Workforce Data Tool using the National Health Workforce
Dataset (NHWDS)

  * [ ](./publications/report-met4-2019.html)

## [Report, MET 4th (2019)](./publications/report-met4-2019.html)

5 Mar 2021

publications

The Medical Education and Training (MET) factsheets provide a comprehensive
picture of medical education and training in Australia as well as the supply
of medical practitioners from overseas. âMET3â is the third data
collection in the MET series bringing together the latest information from a
range of sources.

  * [ ](./data/summary-met4-2019.html)

## [Summary Statistics, MET 4th 2019](./data/summary-met4-2019.html)

5 Mar 2021

data

Medical Education and Training 4th 2019, Summary Statistics

  * [ ](./publications/factsheet-alld-2019.html)

## [Factsheet, Allied Health 2019](./publications/factsheet-alld-2019.html)

1 Jan 2021

publications

Information on the Allied Health workforce for 2019

  * [ ](./publications/survey-mdcl-2020.html)

## [Survey, Medical Practitioners 2020](./publications/survey-mdcl-2020.html)

1 Dec 2020

publications

Sample Surveys for Medical Practitioners 2020

  * [ ](./publications/factsheet-nrmw-2019.html)

## [Factsheet, Nursing and Midwifery 2019](./publications/factsheet-
nrmw-2019.html)

16 Nov 2020

publications

Information on the Nursing and Midwifery workforce for 2019, including
Registered Nurses, Enrolled Nurses, Midwifery and Nurse Practitioners

  * [ ](./publications/factsheet-nrmw-2018.html)

## [Factsheet, Nursing and Midwifery 2018](./publications/factsheet-
nrmw-2018.html)

3 Nov 2020

publications

Information on the Nursing and Midwifery workforce for 2018

  * [ ](./publications/factsheet-mdcl-2018.html)

## [Factsheet, Medical 2018](./publications/factsheet-mdcl-2018.html)

3 Nov 2020

publications

Information on the Medical Workforce for 2018

  * [ ](./publications/factsheet-nrmw-2017.html)

## [Factsheet, Nursing and Midwifery 2017](./publications/factsheet-
nrmw-2017.html)

2 Nov 2020

publications

Information on the Nursing and Midwifery workforce for 2017, including
Registered Nurses, Enrolled Nurses, Midwifery and Nurse Practitioners

  * [ ](./data/summary-met3-2018.html)

## [Summary Statistics, MET 3rd 2018](./data/summary-met3-2018.html)

1 Oct 2020

data

Medical Education and Training 3rd 2018, Summary Statistics

  * [ ](./information/factsheets.html)

## [Information, Factsheets](./information/factsheets.html)

15 Sep 2020

information

Information on the factsheets that are published by the Department of Health
and Aged Care relating to Health Workforce

  * [ ](./information/datatool.html)

## [Information, Data Tool](./information/datatool.html)

15 Sep 2020

information

Information on the Health Workforce Data Tool

  * [ ](./publications/factsheet-alld-2017.html)

## [Factsheet, Allied Health 2017](./publications/factsheet-alld-2017.html)

19 May 2020

publications

Information on the Allied Health workforce for 2017

  * [ ](./information/workforce-planning-tool.html)

## [Information, Workforce Planning Tool](./information/workforce-planning-
tool.html)

15 Dec 2019

information

Information on the Workforce Planning Tool

  * [ ](./publications/survey-mdcl-2019.html)

## [Survey, Medical Practitioners 2019](./publications/survey-mdcl-2019.html)

1 Dec 2019

publications

Sample Surveys for Medical Practitioners 2019

  * [ ](./publications/report-afhw.html)

## [Report, Australia's Future Health Workforce (AFHW)](./publications/report-
afhw.html)

1 Oct 2019

publications

AFHW reports contain detailed modelling on workforce supply, demand and
training, and projects the numbers required to 2030 for the profession

  * [ ](./publications/report-met3-2018.html)

## [Report, MET 3rd (2018)](./publications/report-met3-2018.html)

1 Jul 2019

publications

The Medical Education and Training (MET) factsheets provide a comprehensive
picture of medical education and training in Australia as well as the supply
of medical practitioners from overseas. âMET3â is the third data
collection in the MET series bringing together the latest information from a
range of sources.

  * [ ](./publications/survey-nrmw-2018.html)

## [Survey, Nursing and Midwifery 2018](./publications/survey-nrmw-2018.html)

1 Dec 2018

publications

Sample Surveys for Nursing and Midwifery 2018

  * [ ](./publications/survey-mdcl-2018.html)

## [Survey, Medical Practitioners 2018](./publications/survey-mdcl-2018.html)

1 Dec 2018

publications

Sample Surveys for Medical Practitioners 2018

  * [ ](./information/specification-met2-2017.html)

## [Data Specification, MET 2nd (2017)](./information/specification-
met2-2017.html)

1 Jul 2018

information

MET 2nd dataset data specification

  * [ ](./publications/report-met2-2017.html)

## [Report, MET 2nd (2017)](./publications/report-met2-2017.html)

1 Jul 2018

publications

The Medical Education and Training (MET) factsheets provide a comprehensive
picture of medical education and training in Australia as well as the supply
of medical practitioners from overseas. âMET2â is the second data
collection in the MET series bringing together the latest information from a
range of sources.

  * [ ](./publications/survey-nrmw-2017.html)

## [Survey, Nursing and Midwifery 2017](./publications/survey-nrmw-2017.html)

1 Dec 2017

publications

Sample Surveys for Nursing and Midwifery 2017

  * [ ](./publications/survey-mdcl-2017.html)

## [Survey, Medical Practitioners 2017](./publications/survey-mdcl-2017.html)

1 Dec 2017

publications

Sample Surveys for Medical Practitioners 2017

  * [ ](./publications/survey-alld-2017.html)

## [Survey, Allied Health 2017](./publications/survey-alld-2017.html)

1 Dec 2017

publications

Sample Surveys for Allied Health Professionals 2017

  * [ ](./publications/report-met1-2016.html)

## [Report, MET 1st (2016)](./publications/report-met1-2016.html)

1 Jul 2017

publications

The MET 1st Report provides the annual changes in medical education and
training

  * [ ](./information/mtrp.html)

## [Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) Data
Collection](./information/mtrp.html)

1 Jan 2017

information

Information on the Medical Education and Training Data Collection

  * [ ](./publications/factsheet-mdcl-2016.html)

## [Factsheet, Medical 2016](./publications/factsheet-mdcl-2016.html)

1 Jan 2017

publications

Information on the Medical Workforce for 2016

  * [ ](./information/surveys.html)

## [Information, Workforce Surveys](./information/surveys.html)

1 Dec 2016

information

Information on the Health Workforce Surveys and Survey process

  * [ ](./information/stronger-rural-health.html)

## [Information, Stronger Rural Health Strategy](./information/stronger-rural-
health.html)

1 Dec 2016

information

Information on the Stronger Rural Health Strategy

  * [ ](./information/publications.html)

## [Information, Publications](./information/publications.html)

1 Dec 2016

information

Information on the Health Workforce Publications that the Department publishes

  * [ ](./publications/survey-nrmw-2016.html)

## [Survey, Nursing and Midwifery 2016](./publications/survey-nrmw-2016.html)

1 Dec 2016

publications

Sample Surveys for Nursing and Midwifery 2016

  * [ ](./publications/survey-mdcl-2016.html)

## [Survey, Medical Practitioners 2016](./publications/survey-mdcl-2016.html)

1 Dec 2016

publications

Sample Surveys for Medical Practitioners 2016

  * [ ](./publications/survey-alld-2016.html)

## [Survey, Allied Health 2016](./publications/survey-alld-2016.html)

1 Dec 2016

publications

Sample Surveys for Allied Health Professionals 2016

  * [ ](./publications/survey-nrmw-2015.html)

## [Survey, Nursing and Midwifery 2015](./publications/survey-nrmw-2015.html)

1 Dec 2015

publications

Sample Surveys for Nursing and Midwifery 2015

  * [ ](./publications/survey-mdcl-2015.html)

## [Survey, Medical Practitioners 2015](./publications/survey-mdcl-2015.html)

1 Dec 2015

publications

Sample Surveys for Medical Practitioners 2015

  * [ ](./publications/survey-alld-2015.html)

## [Survey, Allied Health 2015](./publications/survey-alld-2015.html)

1 Dec 2015

publications

Sample Surveys for Allied Health Professionals 2015

  * [ ](./information/clinical-placements.html)

## [Clinical Placements](./information/clinical-placements.html)

1 Oct 2014

information

Information on The Clinical Placements Datasets

### Resources

  * [Publications](../resources/index.html?resourcetype=publications)
  * [Dashboards](../resources/index.html?resourcetype=dashboards)
  * [Data](../resources/index.html?resourcetype=data)
  * [Information](../resources/index.html?resourcetype=information)

### Applications

  * [Data Tool](../datatool/index.html)
  * [HeaDS UPP](../headsupp/index.html)

### Contact us

  * [Contact Us](../contactus/index.html)

### Using our website

  * [Using our website](../using-our-website/using.html)
  * [Accessibility](../using-our-website/accessibility.html)
  * [Copyright](../using-our-website/copyright.html)
  * [Disclaimer](../using-our-website/disclaimer.html)
  * [Privacy](../using-our-website/privacy.html)

Â© Commonwealth of Australia

Back to top

