Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Skip to main content

[ ![Back to the homepage](/sites/default/files/2022-07/DHAC-Crest-AIH2x.png)
![Going back to the homepage](/sites/default/files/2022-07/DHAC-Crest-AIH-
standard_0.png) ](/ "Home")

### Sub menu

  * [About the Handbook](/contents/about-the-handbook "About the handbook")
  * [Contact us](/contact-us "Contact us")

Search  

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/home)
  * [Contents](/contents)
  * [Diseases](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases)
  * [Vaccines](/vaccines)
  * [Catch-up vaccination](/contents/catch-up-vaccination)
  * [Resources](/resources)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Table of contents](/contents)
  3. [Vaccination procedures](/contents/vaccination-procedures)

[Vaccination procedures](/contents/vaccination-procedures)

# After vaccination

How to manage adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), including
anaphylaxis. How to document the vaccine given and report it to the
immunisation register.

  * [ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&voice=Jack&readclass=main-content&url=https%3A%2F%2Fimmunisationhandbook.health.gov.au%2Fcontents%2Fvaccination-procedures%2Fafter-vaccination "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * Print 
  * Share 

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=After vaccination&url=https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccination-procedures/after-vaccination "Share to Twitter")
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccination-procedures/after-vaccination "Share to Facebook")
    * [Email](mailto:?subject= The Australian Immunisation Handbook | After vaccination&body=https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccination-procedures/after-vaccination "Share via email")

Recently added

This page was added on **08 June 2018**.

Updates made

This page was updated on **08 March 2022**. View history of updates

On this page:

On this page

## Immediate after-care

Immediately after vaccine administration:

  1. Dispose of clinical waste, including sharps and vaccine vials, at the point of use. See your state or territory management guidelines for how to safely dispose of clinical waste. Also see the National Health and Medical Research Council’s [Australian Guidelines for the Prevention and Control of Infection in Healthcare](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/guidelines-publications/cd33).1
  2. Cover the injection site quickly with a dry cotton ball and tape as needed.
  3. Gently apply pressure for 1 or 2 minutes. Do not rub the site — rubbing will encourage the vaccine to leak back up the needle track, which can cause pain and local irritation.
  4. To distract the vaccinated person and reduce distress, immediately change their position after completing the vaccination. For example, ask the parent/carer to put the infant over their shoulder and move around.2
  5. Remove the cottonwool after a few minutes and leave the injection site exposed to the air.
  6. Record the relevant details of the vaccines given — see Documenting vaccination.
  7. Keep the person under observation for at least 15 minutes to ensure that they do not experience an immediate adverse event, and to provide rapid medical care if needed. They should not drive or operate machinery during this time.
  8. Inform the vaccinated person or their parent/carer, preferably in writing, of any expected adverse events following immunisation, and of the date of the next scheduled vaccination(s).

Take the opportunity to check the vaccination status of other family members
(as appropriate), and discuss any catch-up vaccination requirements and
options available. This can also be done earlier in the visit.

Paracetamol may be recommended, as required, for fever or pain after
vaccination. Paracetamol is not recommended prophylactically, except for MenB
(meningococcal B) vaccine in infants <2 years of age (see [Meningococcal
disease](/node/152)). See [Common adverse events following
immunisation](/contents/vaccination-procedures/after-vaccination#common-aefis-
and-how-to-manage-them) and how to manage them.

## Documenting vaccination

Immunisation providers must document all vaccinations. This includes:

  * documenting the vaccination in the person’s medical record
  * [notifying the vaccination to the relevant immunisation register](/contents/vaccination-procedures/after-vaccination#reporting-to-immunisation-registers)

### Children

Document all vaccines administered to children in the child’s clinical file
and the individual child health record. The parent or carer keeps this record
and presents it every time the child sees a health professional.

See also Reporting to immunisation registers.

### Adolescents and adults

Record vaccines administered to adolescents and adults in both the vaccinated
person’s clinical file and the personal health record, or individual record of
vaccination. Record the following details:

  * the person’s full name and date of birth
  * Medicare number (if applicable)
  * details of the vaccine given, including the brand name, batch number and dose number
  * date and time of vaccination
  * site of administration
  * name of the person providing the vaccination
  * date the next vaccination is due

See also Reporting to immunisation registers.

### Healthcare workers or students

Healthcare workers or healthcare students doing work or clinical placement in
state or territory health facilities may have specific requirements for
documenting their vaccinations. Contact your [state or territory health
department](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/immunisation-
contacts) for specific requirements.

See also Reporting to immunisation registers.

## Reporting to immunisation registers

The Australian Immunisation Register (AIR) is a national register that records
all vaccines given to all people in Australia. This includes vaccines received
from recognised immunisation providers in general practice, community clinics
and school programs.

All people of all ages who are enrolled in Medicare are automatically included
on the AIR. People not enrolled in Medicare are included when an [immunisation
provider](/technical-terms#immunisation-provider) sends details of a
vaccination to the register. Immunisation providers other than general
practitioners need to register with the AIR before they can send data to it.

The _Australian Immunisation Register Act 2015_ came into effect on 1 January
2016, and provides the legal authority for the expansion and ongoing
administration and keeping of the immunisation registers. Before 2016,
Australia had 2 national immunisation registers:

  * The Australian Childhood Immunisation Register (ACIR) started on 1 January 1996 and recorded details of vaccines given to children <7 years of age who live in Australia. The ACIR expanded in 2016 to become the AIR.
  * The National Human Papillomavirus Vaccination Program Register (HPV Register) started in 2007 to record information about HPV vaccine doses administered in Australia.

As part of the transition of the AIR to a whole of life register, in late 2018
all HPV vaccination records held in the National HPV Vaccination Program
Register (HPV Register) were transferred into the AIR. The HPV Register closed
on 31 December 2018.

### Why report to the register?

The AIR provides an important means of ensuring accountability of, and
evaluating, Australia’s funded National Immunisation Program. The AIR is the
primary means of determining vaccination coverage at national, state and
territory, and local levels.

The AIR provides a central record of the vaccination history of every
Australian. It is accessible by Australian immunisation providers to assess a
person’s vaccination history and plan vaccination needs.

AIR data are used to determine a family’s entitlement to government family
assistance payments.

Immunisation requirements for eligibility for these payments include all
people up to 20 years of age.

It is therefore important that immunisation providers promptly submit
vaccination data to the AIR.

The Australian Government Department of Human Services website has [more
details about immunisation requirements for family assistance
payments](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/enablers/immunisation-
requirements/35396).

### Australian Immunisation Register

Immunisation providers should send details of all National Immunisation
Program and private vaccinations to the AIR. Vaccination details can be
submitted to the AIR:

  * using Practice Management Software
  * through the AIR site

More [details about reporting to the AIR for health
professionals](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/australian-immunisation-register-health-
professionals) can be found on the Australian Government Department of Human
Services website.

When required, exemptions to immunisation can be given for medical
contraindications or natural immunity to certain diseases. Immunisation
medical exemptions can only be given by:

  * general practitioners
  * general practice registrars on an approved training placement
  * paediatricians
  * public health physicians
  * infectious diseases physicians
  * clinical immunologists

Medical exemptions can be reported using the AIR site.

An individual’s vaccination record can be updated with vaccination details
where there is documentation that the vaccination was given by another
[immunisation provider](/technical-terms#immunisation-provider) (including
vaccines given while the individual was overseas) by taking the record of
vaccination to a recognised vaccination provider. The vaccination provider can
check if the immunisations administered match the [National Immunisation
Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/national-
immunisation-program), help you to catch up if you’re missing any
immunisations and add your overseas immunisations to the AIR.

#### Resources on the AIR website

The Australian Government Department of Human Services website has
[information and resources about the
AIR](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register). The website has:

  * a general information area for individuals and families
  * a general information area for health professionals 
  * a secure area for immunisation providers only

The AIR site, which is accessed via
[HPOS](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/hpos), allows immunisation providers to obtain
a range of statistical and identified reports. Depending on the provider’s
access level, they can view an individual's vaccination details; record
vaccination information; and access a range of other reports.

All recognised immunisation providers (including general practitioners) are
automatically given access to the AIR site.

For more details or for assistance on any reporting issues, call the AIR
Internet Helpline on 1300 650 039.

##### Immunisation History Statement

Immunisation History Statements contain details of vaccines included in the
National Immunisation Program and most privately purchased vaccines. These
statements are automatically generated when a child completes the childhood
vaccination schedule (usually at around 4 years of age). Statements are mailed
to the address most recently recorded by Medicare for that person.

Parents and carers of children <14 years of age, adolescents ≥14 years of age
and adults can get a copy of their immunisation history at any time:

  * using their [Medicare online account through myGov](https://my.gov.au/LoginServices/main/login?execution=e2s1)
  * through the Medicare Express Plus mobile app
  * by calling 1800 653 809 (free call)

Immunisation History Statements can help people recall vaccination history
when required, including:

  * for childcare and school enrolment
  * to determine eligibility for family assistance payments — this requires that children are assessed as fully immunised

##### Recording details of a deceased person

Medicare notifies the AIR of the death of anyone with an AIR record.
Immunisation providers no longer need to provide this information to the AIR.

##### Individuals who have moved overseas

If an individual has moved overseas, their [immunisation provider](/technical-
terms#immunisation-provider) can inform the AIR by telephone or secure-site
email. This prevents their name continuing to appear on AIR reports of overdue
individuals.

##### People born overseas who have moved to Australia permanently

A person born overseas who has moved permanently to Australia will be
automatically added to the AIR when they enrol with Medicare. Individuals
residing temporarily in Australia are not included on the AIR until an
[immunisation provider](/technical-terms#immunisation-provider) notifies the
register of a vaccine administered to that person.

### Australian Q Fever Register

The [Australian Q Fever Register](https://www.qfever.org/) records information
about people who have received Q fever vaccine. Registered users can access
this information.

See [Q fever](/node/156).

## Adverse events following immunisation

An [adverse event following immunisation](/technical-terms#adverse-event-
following-immunisation) (AEFI) is any negative reaction that follows
vaccination. It does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the
vaccine.

The adverse event may be any:3

  * unfavourable or unintended sign
  * unfavourable or unintended symptom
  * disease
  * abnormal laboratory finding 

These events may be caused by the vaccine(s) or may occur by chance (that is,
the event would have occurred regardless of vaccination).

### Frequency of AEFIs

The frequency of adverse events is classified by regulatory agencies and often
reported in clinical trials as:4

  * very common (>10% of people vaccinated)
  * common (1–10%)
  * uncommon (0.1 to <1%)
  * rare (0.01% to <0.1%) 
  * very rare (<0.01%)

### Minimising the risk of AEFIs

Screen each person to be vaccinated using the [pre-vaccination screening
checklist](/node/183) in [Preparing for vaccination](/node/181). This helps
ensure that the person does not have a condition that increases the risk of an
AEFI or is a [contraindication](/technical-terms#contraindication) to
vaccination.

Also check:

  * the [disease-specific chapters](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases "Vaccine preventable diseases") of this Handbook, including the variations from product information 
  * any other relevant sources, such as state or territory guidelines 

Always use correct injection procedures to help minimise adverse events. See
[Administration of vaccines](/node/184).

### Informing the person being vaccinated about possible adverse events

Advise the person, or their parent or carer about what common adverse events
are likely or expected and what they should do about them. This should be part
of the consent procedure.

It is preferable to give people written advice, such as [Table. Common side
effects following immunisation for vaccines used in the National Immunisation
Program schedule](/node/450).

See also [Preparing for vaccination](/node/181).

### Immediate AEFIs and how to manage them

#### Anaphylaxis

The most serious immediate AEFI is [anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis). Severe anaphylactic reactions usually happen rapidly,
within 15 minutes of vaccination.

Anaphylaxis after routine vaccination is very rare, but can be fatal.5

All immunisation providers must be able to:

  * recognise all the symptoms and signs of [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis)
  * distinguish between [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis), convulsions and fainting 

See:

  * [Table. Clinical features that may help differentiate between a vasovagal episode and anaphylaxis](/node/185)
  * [Table. Recognition and treatment of anaphylaxis](/node/516)
  * [Infographic. Managing anaphylaxis after vaccination](/node/488)
  * [Infographic. Preparing an anaphylaxis response kit](/node/495)

##### Signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis

Anaphylaxis is characterised by sudden respiratory compromise and/or
circulatory collapse.6

Early signs involve the skin — for example:

  * generalised erythema
  * urticaria 
  * angioedema 

Early signs can also involve the gastrointestinal tract — for example:

  * diarrhoea
  * vomiting 

Severe cases may have:

  * circulatory collapse 
  * altered level of consciousness
  * hypotension
  * weak or absent pulse 
  * marked respiratory compromise from upper airway oedema or bronchospasm

##### Managing anaphylaxis

Rapid intramuscular administration of adrenaline is the cornerstone of
[anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) treatment. Adrenaline is
lifesaving and must be used promptly.7

Antihistamines or hydrocortisone are not recommended to manage
[anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) in an emergency.

Every time vaccines are given, these things must be immediately to hand:

  * a protocol for managing [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis)
  * adrenaline
  * 1 mL syringes

###### Protocol for managing anaphylaxis

  * If the person is unconscious, lie them on their left side and position them to keep the airway clear.
  * If the person is conscious, lie them on their back in ‘head-down and feet-up’ position, unless this causes breathing difficulties.
  * If the person has respiratory or cardiovascular symptoms or signs of [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis), give adrenaline by [intramuscular injection](/technical-terms#intramuscular-injection) into the anterolateral thigh. See Using adrenaline for dosage.
  * Call for help. Never leave the patient alone.
  * If oxygen is available, give it to the person by facemask at a high flow rate.
  * If the person’s condition does not improve within 5 minutes, give another dose of adrenaline. Keep giving doses every 5 minutes until the person improves.
  * Check the person’s breathing. If they are not breathing, start basic life support or cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), according to the [Australian Resuscitation Council Guidelines](https://resus.org.au/guidelines/).8
  * In all cases, transfer the person to hospital for more observation and treatment.
  * Fully document the event, including the time and dose(s) of adrenaline given.

##### Using adrenaline

Adrenaline 1:1000 is recommended to treat [anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis) because it is universally available. Adrenaline 1:1000
contains 1 mg of adrenaline per mL of solution in a 1 mL glass vial.

Adrenaline 1:10,000 is **not** recommended to treat [anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis).

Adrenaline is not needed for generalised non-anaphylactic reactions (such as
skin rash or angioedema). If in doubt, give intramuscular adrenaline. No
serious or permanent harm is likely to occur from administering adrenaline to
a person who is not experiencing [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis).9

Use a 1 mL syringe to improve measurement accuracy when drawing up small doses
of adrenaline.

###### Dosage and administration of adrenaline

The recommended dose of 1:1000 adrenaline is:

  * 0.01 mL per kg body weight (equivalent to 0.01 mg per kg or 10 µg per kg)
  * up to a maximum of 0.5 mL
  * given by deep [intramuscular injection](/technical-terms#intramuscular-injection), preferably in the anterolateral (upper outer) thigh

Repeat the dose of 1:1000 adrenaline every 5 minutes until there is clinical
improvement.

Also see [Table. Recognition and treatment of anaphylaxis](/node/516).

The anterolateral thigh is the preferred site because adrenaline disperses
more predictably from this site.10 This also aligns with recommendations from
various professional bodies in:11

  * emergency medicine
  * anaesthetics
  * immunology

**Do not** give adrenaline 1:1000 intravenously.

[Table. Doses of intramuscular 1:1000 adrenaline for anaphylaxis](/node/186)
lists the dose of 1:1000 adrenaline to use if you do not know the person’s
exact weight.

Table. Doses of intramuscular 1:1000 adrenaline for anaphylaxis

Approximate age and weight | Adrenaline dose  
---|---  
~ <1 year (<7.5 kg) | 0.10 mL  
~ 1–2 years (10 kg) | 0.10 mL  
~ 2–3 years (15 kg) | 0.15 mL  
~ 4–6 years (20 kg) | 0.20 mL  
~ 7–10 years (30 kg) | 0.30 mL  
~ 10–12 years (40 kg) | 0.40 mL  
>12 years and adults, including pregnant women (over 50 kg) | 0.50 mL  
Source: Modified from Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and
Allergy12  
  
###### Using adrenaline autoinjectors

Adrenaline autoinjectors (EpiPen) are devices that administer a single, pre-
measured dose of adrenaline.

They are designed for use by anyone, whether medically trained or not. Clear
instructions on correct use are on the device’s barrel and in the packaging.

Autoinjectors are usually recommended or prescribed for:

  * people who are at risk of [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) due to an existing allergy
  * people for whom skin testing indicates a high risk of an allergic reaction on exposure to an allergen

If a person who carries an autoinjector device develops
[anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) after vaccination, it is
appropriate to use their autoinjector to administer adrenaline.

Administer autoinjectors in the mid-outer thigh.

Autoinjectors are dose-specific:

  * EpiPen Jr contains 150 µg adrenaline and is recommended for children weighing between 10 kg and 20 kg.
  * EpiPen contains 300 µg adrenaline and is recommended for children and adults weighing more than 20 kg.

Autoinjectors are not recommended for use in children weighing less than 10
kg.

Autoinjectors are usually not appropriate to include in first aid kits for
general use. This is because:

  * they are single use only
  * they are dose-specific
  * multiple pens would be needed to allow for repeat dosing and varying ages/weights of patients
  * shelf-life is 1–2 years maximum

#### Vasovagal episodes

The most common immediate adverse event in adults and older children is a
vasovagal episode (fainting). This can occur either immediately or soon after
vaccination.

Fainting after vaccination can be serious. If a person feels giddy or light-
headed before or after vaccination, advise them to lie down until they feel
better.

Infants and children rarely faint. Assume that any sudden loss of
consciousness in young children is [anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis), particularly if there is no strong central pulse.

A key difference between [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) and
vasovagal episodes is that:

  * a central pulse is weak or absent in [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis)
  * a central pulse is strong in a vasovagal episode or convulsion

If [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) is suspected, give the person
adrenaline as quickly as possible7 (see Managing [anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis)). Undertreatment of [anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis) is more harmful, and potentially life-threatening, than
overtreatment of a mild or moderate allergic reaction.11

Table. Clinical features that may help differentiate between a vasovagal
episode and anaphylaxis

Clinical feature | Vasovagal episode | Anaphylaxis  
---|---|---  
Onset |

  * Immediate, usually within minutes of, or during, vaccine administration

|

  * Usually within 15 minutes of vaccine administration, but can occur within hours

  
Respiratory symptoms or signs |

  * Normal breathing; may be shallow, but not laboured

|

  * Cough
  * Wheeze
  * Hoarseness
  * Stridor
  * Signs of respiratory distress, such as abnormally rapid breathing (tachypnoea), cyanosis or rib recession
  * Upper airway swelling (eg lip, tongue, throat, uvula, larynx)

  
Cardiovascular symptoms or signs |

  * Bradycardia
  * Weak/absent peripheral pulse
  * Strong carotid pulse
  * Hypotension — usually transient and corrects in supine position
  * Loss of consciousness — improves once supine or in head-down position

|

  * Tachycardia
  * Weak/absent carotid pulse
  * Hypotension — sustained and no improvement without specific treatment (Note: In infants and young children, limpness and pallor are signs of hypotension)
  * Loss of consciousness — no improvement once supine or in head-down position

  
Skin symptoms or signs |

  * Generalised pallor
  * Cool, clammy skin

|

  * Pruritus (skin itchiness)
  * Generalised skin erythema (redness)
  * Urticaria (weals)
  * Angioedema (localised or general swelling of the deeper layers of the skin or subcutaneous tissues)

  
Gastrointestinal symptoms or signs |

  * Nausea or vomiting

|

  * Abdominal cramps
  * Diarrhoea
  * Nausea or vomiting

  
Neurologic symptoms or signs |

  * Person feels faint or light-headed

|

  * Person has a sense of severe anxiety and distress

  
**Note:** Anaphylaxis features are modified from The Brighton Collaboration
Case Definition Criteria for Anaphylaxis.5 Neurologic symptoms are not listed
in this case definition.5 However, symptoms of anxiety and distress, including
feelings of impending doom, are reported in people experiencing
[anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis).6  
  
### Common AEFIs and how to manage them

Most vaccine adverse events are minor. The most common adverse events are
injection site reactions, such as: 13

  * pain
  * redness
  * itching
  * swelling
  * burning

These are to be expected, are generally mild and usually last for 1–2 days.

Injection site nodules are also fairly common. They are fibrous remnants of
the body’s interaction with vaccine components (usually an
[adjuvant](/technical-terms#adjuvant)) in the muscle. Nodules may last for
many weeks after vaccination and do not need any specific treatment.

Low-grade fever and tiredness (malaise) are also common after many vaccines.
These responses are usually mild and self-limiting, and generally do not need
specific treatment.

Commonly occurring AEFIs are described in [Table. Comparison of the effects of
diseases and the side effects of National Immunisation Program
vaccines](/node/509).

Details about the adverse events that are known to occur after vaccination are
in the ‘Adverse events’ section of each [disease-specific chapter](/node/752).

#### Using paracetamol to manage pain or fever

Using paracetamol at the time of, or immediately after, vaccination to reduce
the risk of fever is not recommended.

An exception is the specific recommendation to give prophylactic paracetamol
with Men B vaccine in infants <2 years of age (see [Meningococcal
disease](/node/152)).

Infants, children or adults can receive paracetamol if they have:

  * fever of >38.5°C following vaccination
  * pain at the injection site

The dose of paracetamol for an infant or child up to 12 years of age is 15 mg
per kg per dose, up to a maximum dose of 60 mg per kg per day in 4 divided
doses.

Adults and children aged ≥12 years can receive 500–1000 mg every 4–6 hours.
The dose must not exceed 4 g in 24 hours.

People should not take paracetamol for more than 48 hours without seeking
medical advice.14

#### Seeking medical advice for adverse events

People should seek medical advice if they have unexpected, serious or
prolonged adverse symptoms or signs after vaccination.

The symptoms and signs from illness that is unrelated to vaccination can
sometimes be attributed to a recent vaccination. These should be investigated
and managed.

### Uncommon and rare AEFIs

Some vaccines can cause uncommon or rare serious adverse events. The rate of
vaccine adverse events is usually hundreds to thousands times less than the
rate of disease complications.

The benefits and risks of immunisation are always taken into account when
making recommendations for vaccine use.

It is important to advise the person being vaccinated or their parent/carer
about known, but rare, AEFIs. Place the advice in the context of the benefits
of vaccination. See [Vaccination for people who have had an adverse event
following immunisation](/node/437).

If a person has had a serious, uncommon or rare AEFI, it is important that
they or their [immunisation provider](/technical-terms#immunisation-provider)
seek advice from a specialist immunisation clinic, or contact their [state or
territory health authorities](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/immunisation/immunisation-contacts) for more details. This advice is
important to:

  * determine the relationship of the adverse event to vaccination
  * consider the benefits and risks of further vaccination
  * plan for receiving additional doses of that vaccine or other vaccines, as appropriate

People who have had a serious AEFI can usually still receive vaccines under
close medical supervision. This does not include people who have a
[contraindication](/technical-terms#contraindication), such as
[anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) to a vaccine component whose
identity has been confirmed. For more details, see [Vaccination for people who
have had an adverse event following immunisation](/node/437).

Examples of uncommon and rare adverse events are below. Although uncommon or
rare, these events are not necessarily causally related to vaccination, even
if they occur after vaccination.

#### Febrile convulsions

Febrile convulsions are a fairly common response to fever of any cause in
young children, particularly in those aged <3 years. Incidence peaks at 14–18
months of age. Overall, by the age of 5 years, around 3% of all children will
have had a [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) convulsion, regardless of
vaccination.

Febrile convulsions are rare after vaccination. They do occur more commonly
after some vaccines, but still at a low rate.

For example, MMR (measles-mumps-rubella) and MMRV (measles-mumps-rubella-
varicella) vaccines are associated with an increased risk of
[febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) convulsions around 7–12 days after the 1st
vaccine dose (see [Measles](/node/151) for more details).

Co-administration of inactivated influenza vaccine and 13vPCV (13-valent
pneumococcal [conjugate vaccine](/technical-terms#conjugate-vaccine)) may also
be associated with an increased risk of [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile)
convulsions. See [Influenza](/node/149) and [Pneumococcal disease](/node/154).

In 2010, 1 brand of seasonal influenza vaccine (bioCSL Fluvax and Fluvax
Junior) was associated with high fevers and [febrile](/technical-
terms#febrile) convulsions in children aged <5 years in Australia. Incidence
was estimated at 4.4 per 1000 doses in Western Australia.15 This vaccine is no
longer registered for use in this age group. Other influenza vaccines for
children have not been associated with an excess risk of fever and
[febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) convulsions.15,16

#### Brachial neuritis

Brachial neuritis is inflammation of a nerve in the arm, causing weakness or
numbness. It can occur after receiving a tetanus toxoid–containing vaccine.
The estimated excess risk is around 0.5–1 in 100,000 doses in adults.4,17

Case reports of [brachial neuritis](/technical-terms#brachial-neuritis)
following administration of other vaccines are rare, and a causal relationship
has not been established.18 This includes HPV (human papillomavirus)
vaccines.19

#### Intussusception

Oral rotavirus vaccines are associated with a small increased risk of
[intussusception](/technical-terms#intussusception). This a rare form of bowel
blockage caused when the intestine telescopes into itself. The risk appears to
be particularly in the 7 days following the 1st vaccine dose. However, a
smaller increased risk in the week after the 2nd dose has also been
reported.20-22

The increased risk represents around 6 additional cases of
[intussusception](/technical-terms#intussusception) for every 100,000 infants
vaccinated, or 14 additional cases per year in Australia.22

Children who have had [intussusception](/technical-terms#intussusception) are
not recommended to receive rotavirus vaccine (see [Rotavirus](/node/158)).

#### Anaphylaxis

Anaphylaxis after immunisation has been reported, but is very rare.23

For example, the estimated incidence rate of [anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis) after receiving 4vHPV (4-valent HPV) vaccine in Australia
as at June 2015 was 2.8 [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) episodes
per million doses of vaccine distributed.24 This is within the same rate range
as for other vaccines given to children and adolescents in international
studies, such as hepatitis B vaccine, which is associated with
[anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) in approximately 1 in 1.1 million
doses distributed.25

See Anaphylaxis.

#### Hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode

A hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode (HHE) is the sudden onset of:

  * pallor or cyanosis
  * limpness (muscle hypotonia)
  * reduced responsiveness or unresponsiveness

This can occur after vaccination where no other cause is evident, such as a
vasovagal episode or [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis).

The episode usually occurs 1–48 hours after vaccination and resolves
spontaneously.

There are no known long-term side effects from an HHE.26,27

In Australia during 2011, 3 HHEs were reported per 100,000 doses of DTPa
(diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis)–containing vaccine given to children
<1 year of age.28

#### Guillain–Barré syndrome

Guillain–Barré syndrome (GBS) is a rare autoimmune condition. It involves
acute onset of flaccid paralysis that is:

  * rapidly progressive
  * ascending
  * symmetrical

It may or may not involve sensory loss.

Diagnosis of GBS is complex. Only a physician can diagnose GBS.

A small increased risk of GBS was associated with an influenza vaccine in the
United States in 1976. Since then, close surveillance has shown that GBS
occurs at a very low rate of up to 1 in 1 million doses of influenza vaccine,
if at all.29

#### Complex regional pain syndrome

Complex regional pain syndrome is an uncommon and poorly understood condition.
It is characterised by chronic pain in one or more of the extremities, along
with autonomic dysfunction in the affected limb(s). It occurs in response to
trauma such as: 30

  * injury
  * stroke
  * medical procedures

Rare cases of complex regional pain syndrome after vaccination have been
reported. However, this may be a non-specific reaction to the minor trauma of
the injection and not specific to the vaccine(s) used.18

#### Generalised (chickenpox-like) rash following varicella (chickenpox) or
varicella zoster (shingles) vaccine

Chickenpox-like rashes can develop after live attenuated varicella-zoster
vaccine (with either varicella or zoster vaccine) due to replication of the
Oka vaccine [virus](/technical-terms#virus). About 5% of varicella vaccine
recipients develop a papulovesicular (chickenpox-like) rash within 1 to 4
weeks of vaccination. Most chickenpox-like rashes that occur within the first
2 weeks after varicella vaccination are the result of [infection](/technical-
terms#infection) with wild-type varicella-zoster [virus](/technical-
terms#virus) (VZV) before vaccine immunity has developed. Rashes caused by the
Oka vaccine strain rashes occur a median of 3 weeks (range 5 days to 6 weeks)
after varicella vaccination.

Adults who receive the live attenuated zoster vaccine, Zostavax, can
occasionally develop a disseminated (non-localised) VZV-like rash around 2 to
4 weeks after vaccination. This occurs very rarely because Zostavax usually
acts to boost pre-existing immunity to VZV. Inadvertent administration of
Zostavax to people with severe immunocompromise, in whom the vaccine is
contraindicated, can result in disseminated severe disease from the Oka
vaccine [virus](/technical-terms#virus).31,32 VZV-like rash after Zostavax has
also very rarely been reported to occur in people who are immunocompetent or
on low-dose [immunosuppressive therapy](/technical-terms#immunosuppressive-
therapy).

Always conduct careful pre-screening and a risk-based assessment before
administering Zostavax. If necessary, this should include medical specialist
consultation. See [Zoster (herpes zoster)](/node/165).

Always advise people who have received Zostavax to:

  * seek immediate medical attention if they develop a generalised VZV-like rash
  * inform their medical practitioner that they have recently received Zostavax

If the person has suspected disseminated VZV [infection](/technical-
terms#infection):

  * conduct appropriate diagnostic testing
  * start empirical antiviral treatment
  * consult with an infectious diseases specialist
  * stop [immunosuppressive therapy](/technical-terms#immunosuppressive-therapy), if relevant
  * notify the relevant state or territory health authority and the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) - see [Reporting AEFIs](/contents/vaccination-procedures/after-vaccination#reporting-aefis)

##### Events where evidence demonstrates no causal link with immunisation

Because vaccines are usually given to healthy people, conditions that occur
after a vaccine dose may be attributed to vaccination. This is particularly so
for illnesses that are complex and have an unknown or unclear cause.

Many of these illnesses are rare or manifest months to years after
vaccination. This means that they are difficult to study in randomised
controlled clinical trials, which are usually conducted before vaccine
registration.

However, strong epidemiological evidence indicates that there is no causal
association between vaccination and many diseases or conditions that were
suggested to relate to vaccines. This evidence usually comes from multiple
well-conducted post-marketing studies.

Examples of events unrelated to vaccination include:

  * sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and any vaccine33-35
  * autism and MMR vaccine36-39
  * multiple sclerosis and hepatitis B vaccine40-43
  * inflammatory bowel disease and MMR vaccine36
  * diabetes and Hib ( _Haemophilus influenzae_ type b) vaccine44-46
  * asthma and any vaccine47

People who want advice about links between vaccination and certain conditions
can speak to:

  * their [immunisation provider](/technical-terms#immunisation-provider)
  * a specialist immunisation clinic
  * their [state or territory health authority](https://health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/immunisation-contacts)

### Reporting AEFIs

**Promptly report any serious or unexpected AEFI**

Providers should use clinical judgement to decide which adverse events to
report.

Parents and carers should be encouraged to notify their [immunisation
provider](/technical-terms#immunisation-provider) or health authorities of any
AEFI.

Surveillance for AEFIs is an integral part of Australia’s National
Immunisation Program. It underpins the safe use of all vaccines in Australia.

Surveillance of AEFIs aims to detect:

  * changes in the rates of known adverse events
  * any unrecognised or unexpected adverse events
  * adverse events that result from program errors, such as incorrect vaccine schedule, delivery or storage

Australia has a vaccine safety surveillance initiative called AusVaxSafety.
AusVaxSafety collects reports of AEFIs directly from the public. Software
programs installed in sentinel surveillance sites (such as general practices
and community immunisation clinics) send SMSs after a vaccination asking about
the person’s experience. The system monitors de-identified information to
detect possible safety signals for vaccines.

#### What to report

All immunisation providers should report AEFIs, particularly serious or
unexpected AEFIs. This allows any vaccine safety issues to be identified and
managed as soon as possible.

Any event that is suspected of being related to vaccination can be reported.
All identifying information relating to the reporter and patient is kept
strictly confidential.

For details on how to report AEFIs, see How to report AEFIs.

Notifying an adverse event does not imply a causal association with
vaccination. Some events may occur coincidentally after vaccination.

#### When to report AEFIs

Timely notification of adverse events — particularly rapid reporting of
serious events — is important to identify any potential concerns.

However, there is no time limit for reporting AEFIs.

#### Who can report AEFIs

Anyone can report an AEFI, whether they are health professionals or consumers.

An [immunisation provider](/technical-terms#immunisation-provider) who did not
give the vaccine can report an AEFI. Include as much detail as possible in all
reports.

Patients and parents should be encouraged to contact their healthcare provider
if they are concerned about an adverse event occurring after vaccination,
particularly if the reaction is:

  * unexpected
  * uncommon
  * serious

As well as reporting AEFIs, immunisation providers may need to advise the
person about clinical management and future vaccination. They may need expert
advice. Information about specialist immunisation clinics, or the contact
details for paediatricians or medical specialists with experience in managing
patients with AEFIs, are usually available from [state or territory health
authorities](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/immunisation/immunisation-contacts). Also see [Vaccination for people
who have had an adverse event following immunisation](/node/437).

#### How to report AEFIs

Details of how to report AEFIs in each state and territory are in [Table.
Contact information for notifying adverse events following
immunisation](/node/187).

Immunisation providers can also report directly to the Therapeutic Goods
Administration (TGA) using the [Australian Adverse Drug Reaction Reporting
System](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/ADRS/ADRSRepo.nsf?OpenDatabase).

Anyone can report adverse events directly to the TGA using the [National
Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) reporting
form](https://www.tga.gov.au/form/national-adverse-events-following-
immunisation-aefi-reporting-form).

Table. Contact information for notifying adverse events following immunisation

State or territory | Report adverse events to | Contact information  
---|---|---  
Australian Capital Territory | ACT Health Department | Complete an [adverse
event reporting form](https://www.health.act.gov.au/services-and-
programs/immunisation/babies-and-children/how-do-i-care-my-child-after-
vaccinations) and contact 02 6205 2300.  
New South Wales | NSW public health units | Complete an [AEFI reporting
form](https://www.tga.gov.au/sites/default/files/national-adverse-events-
following-immunisation-aefi-reporting-form-feb-2021.pdf) and contact your
local public health unit on 1300 066 055.  
Northern Territory | NT Department of Health | Complete an [AEFI
form](https://digitallibrary.health.nt.gov.au/prodjspui/handle/10137/941) and
contact your local Centre for Disease Control unit:

  * Darwin — 08 8922 8044
  * Katherine — 08 8973 9049
  * Tennant Creek — 08 8962 4259
  * Alice Springs — 08 8951 7540
  * Nhulunbuy — 08 8987 0357

  
Queensland | Queensland Health | Complete an [AEFI reporting
form](https://www.health.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0033/442968/aefi-
reporting-form.pdf) and [contact your local public health
unit](https://www.health.qld.gov.au/system-governance/contact-
us/contact/public-health-units).  
South Australia | SA Health | Complete the [online vaccine reaction report
form](https://extapps.health.sa.gov.au/savss/) or telephone 1300 232 272.  
Tasmania | TAS Department of Health | Complete an [AEFI Report
Form](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/sites/default/files/2021-11/AEFI_Report_Form_Public_DoHTasmania2021.pdf)
and email to [tas.aefi@health.tas.gov.au](mailto:tas.aefi@health.tas.gov.au)  
[Adverse events following immunisation (AEFI)
documents](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/publications/adverse-events-
following-immunisation-aefi-documents) | Tasmanian Department of Health or
telephone 1800 671 738  
Victoria | Surveillance of Adverse Events Following Vaccination In the
Community (SAEFVIC) | Report to [SAEFVIC
online](https://www.aefican.org.au/Home/Info/VIC) or telephone 1300 882 924
(choose option 1).  
Western Australia | Western Australian Vaccine Safety Surveillance System
(WAVSS) | [Report to WAVSS online](https://www.safevac.org.au/Home/Info/WA) or
telephone 08 9321 1312.  
  
#### What happens to the reports and data

State and territory health departments forward AEFI notifications to the TGA.
The TGA enters the notification into the Adverse Drug Reactions System
database. This database includes all adverse reaction reports related to
medicines and vaccines.

The TGA forwards copies of AEFI reports it receives from other channels to
state and territory health departments.

The TGA aggregates vaccine AEFI reports from all sources. Details on rates and
trends in AEFIs are published in the journal [Communicable Diseases
Intelligence](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-
aefi-anrep.htm).48

The TGA also transfers reports of adverse events to all medicines, including
vaccines, to a publicly accessible search facility, the [Database of Adverse
Event Notifications](https://www.tga.gov.au/database-adverse-event-
notifications-daen).

## References

  1. National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC). [Australian guidelines for the prevention and control of infection in healthcare](https://nhmrc.gov.au/about-us/publications/australian-guidelines-prevention-and-control-infection-healthcare-2010). Canberra: NHMRC; 2010. 
  2. Sparks L. Taking the "ouch" out of injections for children: using distraction to decrease pain. MCN The American Journal of Maternal/Child Nursing 2001;26:72-8.
  3. [Definition and application of terms for vaccine pharmacovigilance](https://www.who.int/vaccine_safety/initiative/tools/CIOMS_report_WG_vaccine.pdf). Report of CIOMS/WHO Working Group on Vaccine Pharmacovigilance. Geneva: Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences, World Health Organization; 2012. 
  4. Institute of Medicine. Stratton KR, Howe CJ, Johnston RB, Jr., eds. Adverse events associated with childhood vaccines: evidence bearing on causality. Washington, DC: National Academy Press; 1994.
  5. Rüggeberg JU, Gold MS, Bayas JM, et al. Anaphylaxis: case definition and guidelines for data collection, analysis, and presentation of immunization safety data. Vaccine 2007;25:5675-84.
  6. Ewan PW. Anaphylaxis. BMJ 1998;316:1442-5.
  7. Sheikh A, Shehata YA, Brown SG, Simons FE. Adrenaline (epinephrine) for the treatment of [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) with and without shock. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2008;(4):CD006312. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD006312.pub2.
  8. Australian Resuscitation Council, New Zealand Resuscitation Council. [Guideline 8. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation](https://resus.org.au/guidelines/). 2016 (accessed Apr 2018). 
  9. Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy (ASCIA). [Anaphylaxis emergency medication (adrenaline [epinephrine] autoinjectors) for general use](https://allergy.org.au/hp/anaphylaxis/adrenaline-autoinjectors-for-general-use/). 2017 (accessed Apr 2018). 
  10. Simons FE, Gu X, Simons KJ. Epinephrine absorption in adults: intramuscular versus [subcutaneous injection](/technical-terms#subcutaneous-injection). Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2001;108:871-3.
  11. Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy (ASCIA). [Adrenaline (epinephrine) autoinjectors FAQ](https://allergy.org.au/hp/anaphylaxis/adrenaline-autoinjectors-faqs/). 2018 (accessed Apr 2018). 
  12. Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy (ASCIA). [Guidelines: acute management of anaphylaxis](https://allergy.org.au/hp/papers/acute-management-of-anaphylaxis-guidelines/). Sydney: ASCIA; 2017. 
  13. Kroger AT, Duchin J, Vázquez M. [General best practice guidelines for immunization](https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/acip-recs/general-recs/index.html). Best practices guidance of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). Atlanta, GA: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2017. 
  14. Australian Government Department of Health, Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). [Paracetamol: practitioner fact sheet](https://www.tga.gov.au/alert/paracetamol-practitioner-fact-sheet). 2003 (accessed Apr 2018). 
  15. Armstrong PK, Dowse GK, Effler PV, et al. Epidemiological study of severe [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) reactions in young children in Western Australia caused by a 2010 trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine. BMJ Open 2011;1:e000016.
  16. Australian Government Department of Health, Therapeutic Goods Administration. [Seasonal flu vaccine: investigation into febrile reactions in young children following 2010 seasonal trivalent influenza vaccination](https://www.tga.gov.au/alert/seasonal-flu-vaccine-investigation-febrile-reactions-young-children-following-2010-seasonal-trivalent-influenza-vaccination). Status report as at 2 July 2010 (updated 24 September 2010) (accessed Apr 2018). 
  17. Hamati-Haddad A, Fenichel GM. Brachial neuritis following routine childhood immunization for diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTP): report of two cases and review of the literature. Pediatrics 1997;99:602-3.
  18. Institute of Medicine. Stratton K, Ford A, Rusch E, Wright Clayton E, eds. Adverse effects of vaccines: evidence and causality. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press; 2012.
  19. Debeer P, De Munter P, Bruyninckx F, Devlieger R. Brachial plexus neuritis following HPV vaccination. Vaccine 2008;26:4417-9.
  20. Buttery JP, Danchin MH, Lee KJ, et al. Intussusception following rotavirus vaccine administration: post-marketing surveillance in the National Immunization Program in Australia. Vaccine 2011;29:3061-6.
  21. Patel MM, López-Collada VR, Bulhões MM, et al. Intussusception risk and health benefits of rotavirus vaccination in Mexico and Brazil. New England Journal of Medicine 2011;364:2283-92.
  22. Carlin JB, Macartney KK, Lee KJ, et al. Intussusception risk and disease prevention associated with rotavirus vaccines in Australia's national immunization program. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2013;57:1427-34.
  23. Mahajan D, Cook J, McIntyre PB, Macartney K, Menzies RI. Annual report: surveillance of adverse events following immunisation in Australia, 2010. Communicable Diseases Intelligence 2011;35:263-80.
  24. Australian Government Department of Health, Therapeutic Goods Administration. [Gardasil (quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccine), update 2](https://www.tga.gov.au/alert/gardasil-quadrivalent-human-papillomavirus-vaccine-update-2). Update – adverse event monitoring: 13 May 2015 (accessed May 2018). 
  25. Bohlke K, Davis RL, Marcy SM, et al. Risk of [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) after vaccination of children and adolescents. Pediatrics 2003;112:815-20.
  26. Goodwin H, Nash M, Gold M, Heath TC, Burgess MA. Vaccination of children following a previous hypotonic–hyporesponsive episode. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health 1999;35:549-52.
  27. Baraff LJ, Shields WD, Beckwith L, et al. Infants and children with convulsions and hypotonic-hyporesponsive episodes following diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis immunization: follow-up evaluation. Pediatrics 1988;81:789-94.
  28. Mahajan D, Cook J, McIntyre P, Macartney K, Menzies R. [Supplementary report: surveillance of adverse events following immunisation among children aged less than seven years in Australia, 1 January to 30 June 2011](http://health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cdi3601-pdf-cnt.htm/%24FILE/cdi3601g.pdf). Communicable Diseases Intelligence 2012;36:114-9.
  29. Nelson KE. Invited commentary: influenza vaccine and Guillain-Barré syndrome – is there a risk? American Journal of Epidemiology 2012;175:1129-32.
  30. Harden RN, Bruehl S, Stanton-Hicks M, Wilson PR. Proposed new diagnostic criteria for complex regional pain syndrome. Pain Medicine 2007;8:326-31.
  31. Alexander KE, Tong PL, Macartney K, et al. Live zoster vaccination in an immunocompromised patient leading to death secondary to disseminated varicella zoster [virus](/technical-terms#virus) [infection](/technical-terms#infection). Vaccine 2018;36:3890-3.
  32. Costa E, Buxton J, Brown J, et al. Fatal disseminated varicella zoster [infection](/technical-terms#infection) following zoster vaccination in an immunocompromised patient. BMJ Case Reports 2016; May 4: doi:10.1136/bcr-2015-212688.
  33. Jonville-Bera AP, Autret E, Laugier J. Sudden infant death syndrome and diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis-poliomyelitis vaccination status. Fundamental and Clinical Pharmacology 1995;9:263-70.
  34. Mitchell EA, Stewart AW, Clements M, Ford RP, New Zealand Cot Death Study Group. Immunisation and the sudden infant death syndrome. Archives of Disease in Childhood 1995;73:498-501.
  35. Fleming PJ, Blair PS, Platt MW, et al. The UK accelerated immunisation programme and sudden unexpected death in infancy: case-control study. BMJ 2001;322:822-5.
  36. MacIntyre CR, McIntyre PB. MMR, autism and inflammatory bowel disease: responding to patient concerns using an evidence-based framework [editorial]. Medical Journal of Australia 2001;175:127-8.
  37. Madsen KM, Hviid A, Vestergaard M, et al. A population-based study of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccination and autism. New England Journal of Medicine 2002;347:1477-82.
  38. Taylor B, Miller E, Lingam R, et al. Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccination and bowel problems or developmental regression in children with autism: population study. BMJ 2002;324:393-6.
  39. Peltola H, Patja A, Leinikki P, et al. No evidence for measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine-associated inflammatory bowel disease or autism in a 14-year prospective study. The Lancet 1998;351:1327-8.
  40. Monteyne P, André FE. Is there a causal link between hepatitis B vaccination and multiple sclerosis? Vaccine 2000;18:1994-2001.
  41. Ascherio A, Zhang SM, Hernán MA, et al. Hepatitis B vaccination and the risk of multiple sclerosis. New England Journal of Medicine 2001;344:327-32.
  42. Demicheli V, Rivetti A, Di Pietrantonj C, Clements CJ, Jefferson T. Hepatitis B vaccination and multiple sclerosis: evidence from a systematic review. Journal of Viral Hepatitis 2003;10:343-4.
  43. World Health Organization (WHO). [The Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety rejects association between hepatitis B vaccination and multiple sclerosis (MS)](https://www.who.int/vaccine_safety/committee/topics/hepatitisb/ms/en/). 2002 (accessed Apr 2018). 
  44. DeStefano F, Mullooly JP, Okoro CA, et al. Childhood vaccinations, vaccination timing, and risk of type 1 diabetes mellitus. Pediatrics 2001;108:e112.
  45. Classen JB, Classen DC. Clustering of cases of insulin dependent diabetes (IDDM) occurring three years after Hemophilus influenza B (HiB) immunization support causal relationship between immunization and IDDM. Autoimmunity 2002;35:247-53.
  46. Karvonen M, Cepaitis Z, Tuomilehto J. Association between type 1 diabetes and _Haemophilus influenzae_ type b vaccination: birth cohort study. BMJ 1999;318:1169-72.
  47. Anderson HR, Poloniecki JD, Strachan DP, et al. Immunization and symptoms of atopic disease in children: results from the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood. American Journal of Public Health 2001;91:1126-9.
  48. Dey A, Wang H, Quinn H, Cook J, Macartney K. Surveillance of adverse events following immunisation in Australia annual report, 2015. Communicable Diseases Intelligence 2017;41:E264-78.

## Page history

Last updated

8 March 2022

Last reviewed

8 March 2022

Show all page updates (2)

8 March 2022

Updates to the 'Doses of intramuscular 1:1000 adrenaline for anaphylaxis'
table to reflect changes to ASCIA's clinical guidelines on acute management of
anaphylaxis (June 2021)

13 January 2021

Editorial changes to content to reflect closure of National HPV Vaccination
Program Register.

Section on reporting to immunisation registers updated to reflect closure of
National HPV Vaccination Program Register.

8 March 2022

Updates to the 'Doses of intramuscular 1:1000 adrenaline for anaphylaxis'
table to reflect changes to ASCIA's clinical guidelines on acute management of
anaphylaxis (June 2021)

13 January 2021

Editorial changes to content to reflect closure of National HPV Vaccination
Program Register.

Section on reporting to immunisation registers updated to reflect closure of
National HPV Vaccination Program Register.

[ Previous Administration of vaccines ](/contents/vaccination-
procedures/administration-of-vaccines "Go to previous page")

[ Next Catch-up vaccination ](/contents/catch-up-vaccination "Go to next
page")

## In this section

##  [Table of contents](/contents)

  * [About the handbook](/contents/about-the-handbook)
  * [Fundamentals of immunisation](/contents/fundamentals-of-immunisation)
  * [Vaccination procedures](/contents/vaccination-procedures)
    * [Preparing for vaccination](/contents/vaccination-procedures/preparing-for-vaccination)
    * [Administration of vaccines](/contents/vaccination-procedures/administration-of-vaccines)
    * After vaccination
  * [Catch-up vaccination](/contents/catch-up-vaccination)
  * [Vaccination for special risk groups](/contents/vaccination-for-special-risk-groups)
  * [Vaccine preventable diseases](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve the Australian Immunisation Handbook

What you were doing? (required)

What went wrong? (required)

Leave this field blank

Printed content may be out of date. For up to date information, always refer
to the digital version:

https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccination-
procedures/after-vaccination

## Who's responsible for the Handbook

  * [ATAGI](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/australian-technical-advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi)
  * [NHMRC](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/)
  * [Chief Medical Officer](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/who-we-are/leadership#chief-medical-officer)
  * [Department of Health and Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/)

## Useful links and tools

  * [Announcements](/contents/about-the-handbook/announcements "Announcements")
  * [Handbook tables](/resources/tables "Handbook tables")
  * [Handbook figures](/resources/figures "Handbook figures")
  * [Technical terms](/technical-terms "Glossary of technical terms")
  * [Abbreviations](/abbreviations "Abbreviations")

## More about Immunisation

  * [National Immunisation Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/national-immunisation-program)
  * [NIP Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/immunisation-throughout-life/national-immunisation-program-schedule)
  * [ATAGI statements](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/australian-technical-advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi#statements)
  * [Immunisation news](https://www.health.gov.au/news?f%5B0%5D=field_related_health_topics%3A1021)
  * [Immunisation resources](https://www.health.gov.au/resources?f%5B0%5D=field_related_health_topics%3A1021&f%5B1%5D=field_audience%3A446)
  * [NCIRS Factsheets](http://www.ncirs.org.au/health-professionals/ncirs-fact-sheets-faqs)

## Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website, the NICC and mobile
app.

[Provide feedback](/provide-feedback)

## Using the Handbook

  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-this-website/copyright)
  * [Disclaimers](https://www.health.gov.au/using-this-website/disclaimers)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-this-website/privacy)

## Mobile apps

[![Download from Apple App
Store](/sites/default/files/2021-05/App_Store_Badge_v2.svg)](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/immunisationhandbook/id1484584970)

[![Get it on Google
Play](/sites/default/files/2021-05/Google_Play_Store_badge_EN_v2.svg)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=au.gov.health.immunisationhandbook.immunisation_handbook&hl=en_AU&gl=AU&utm_source=Website&utm_campaign=AIH)

## Acknowledgement

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges First Nations peoples as
the Traditional Owners of Country throughout Australia, and their continuing
connection to land, sea and community. We pay our respects to them and their
cultures, and to all Elders both past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au/)

Back to top

Link copied

**Link** , **share** or **bookmark** directly to this section of the page.

  *[MMR]: measles-mumps-rubella
  *[MMRV]: measles-mumps-rubella-varicella
  *[13vPCV]: 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
  *[4vHPV]: quadrivalent HPV vaccine
  *[DTPa]: diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis vaccine
  *[GBS]: Guillain-Barré syndrome
  *[SIDS]: sudden infant death syndrome
  *[ACT]: Australian Capital Territory
  *[NHMRC]: National Health and Medical Research Council
  *[WHO]: World Health Organization
  *[ASCIA]: Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy

