Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Skip to main content

[ ![Back to the homepage](/sites/default/files/2022-07/DHAC-Crest-AIH2x.png)
![Going back to the homepage](/sites/default/files/2022-07/DHAC-Crest-AIH-
standard_0.png) ](/ "Home")

### Sub menu

  * [About the Handbook](/contents/about-the-handbook "About the handbook")
  * [Contact us](/contact-us "Contact us")

Search  

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/home)
  * [Contents](/contents)
  * [Diseases](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases)
  * [Vaccines](/vaccines)
  * [Catch-up vaccination](/contents/catch-up-vaccination)
  * [Resources](/resources)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)

[Home](/)

# Glossary of technical terms

Explanation of technical terms used in the Australian Immunisation Handbook.

  * [ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&voice=Jack&readclass=main-content&url=https%3A%2F%2Fimmunisationhandbook.health.gov.au%2Ftechnical-terms "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * Print 
  * Share 

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Glossary of technical terms&url=https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/technical-terms "Share to Twitter")
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/technical-terms "Share to Facebook")
    * [Email](mailto:?subject= The Australian Immunisation Handbook | Glossary of technical terms&body=https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/technical-terms "Share via email")

Technical term | Explanation  
---|---  
acellular vaccine |

A vaccine that contains cellular material but does not contain complete cells  
  
adjuvant |

A substance that is added to a vaccine during production to improve the immune
response to that vaccine  
  
adolescent |

A person aged 10–19 years  
  
adult |

A person aged over 19 years  
  
adverse event following immunisation |

An unwanted medical reaction after administration of a vaccine, which may or
may not be related to the vaccine. Adverse events may be at the site of
injection, a general illness or a general allergic reaction.  
  
allergy |

An immune response to a foreign substance that is harmless in most people. The
foreign substance could be a food, medicine or vaccine component  
  
anaphylaxis |

A sudden and severe allergic reaction to a substance, which results in a
serious fall in blood pressure and/or respiratory obstruction. It may cause
unconsciousness and death if not treated immediately.  
  
antigen |

A foreign substance that induces an immune response, usually the production of
antibodies.  
  
asplenia |

A condition in which a person’s spleen has been removed (anatomical asplenia)
or does not function (functional asplenia).  
  
attenuation |

The process of modifying a virus or bacterium to reduce its virulence
(disease-inducing ability) while retaining its ability to induce a strong
immune response (immunogenicity).  
  
Australian Immunisation Register |

A database that holds records of vaccinations given to people of all ages who
are registered with Medicare in Australia. Immunisation providers need to
enter details of the vaccinations they give on the AIR. The AIR is an
expansion of the previous Australian Childhood Immunisation Register (ACIR),
which recorded vaccinations given to children under 7 years of age.  
  
bacteria |

Microorganisms that are smaller than a blood cell, but bigger than a virus;
examples of diseases caused by bacteria are diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis,
_Haemophilus influenzae_ type b (Hib) and tuberculosis  
  
brachial neuritis |

Pain in the arm that a vaccine was given in, causing persisting weakness of
the arm.  
  
breakthrough infection |

Development of a disease despite previous vaccination against the infectious
agent.  
  
Carriage |

’Carriage’ means the presence of meningococcal bacteria in the upper
respiratory tract without any signs or symptoms of infection.  
  
catch-up vaccination |

The process of planning and scheduling vaccines for people who have missed 1
or more doses of scheduled vaccines.  
  
child |

A person aged 12 months to <10 years.  
  
chronic infection |

An infection that, although not necessarily causing symptoms, may still be
active and may spread to others. Chronic infection may last for years.
Examples of diseases that can cause chronic infection are hepatitis B and
typhoid. People with chronic infections used to be referred to as ‘carriers’.  
  
cold chain |

The system of transporting and storing vaccines within the temperature range
of +2°C to +8°C from the place of manufacture to the point of administration.
This is essential for maintaining vaccine potency and vaccine effectiveness.  
  
combination vaccine |

2 or more vaccines given in a single dose that protects against more than 1
disease. Examples are DTPa (diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis) and MMR
(measles-mumps-rubella) vaccines.  
  
conjugate vaccine |

A type of bacterial vaccine that is made by chemically linking (conjugating) a
protein molecule with a tiny amount of the polysaccharide that makes up the
cell coating of the bacterium. This improves the immune response to the
vaccine. Examples are Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), meningococcal and
pneumococcal conjugate vaccines.  
  
contraindication |

A medical condition or risk factor in a recipient/person that makes receiving
a specific vaccine potentially harmful.  
  
corticosteroid |

A medicine used to reduce inflammation and other immune responses.  
  
effectiveness |

A measure of how well a vaccine works in a defined population in
‘uncontrolled’ or routine circumstances — for example, in a vaccination
program.  
  
efficacy |

A measure of how well a vaccine works in a defined population in controlled or
ideal circumstances — for example, in a randomised controlled trial.  
  
encephalitis |

Inflammation of the brain.  
  
encephalopathy |

A general term to describe a variety of illnesses that affect the brain,
including encephalitis.  
  
endemic |

Ongoing, low-level presence of a disease in a community.  
  
enzootic |

Occurrence of a disease at a steady rate in animals in a specific geographic
area.  
  
epidemic |

The spread of an infection in a community at a faster rate than is normally
expected. Measles and influenza viruses are common causes of epidemics in
Australia. Small epidemics are often called outbreaks.  
  
extensive limb swelling |

Swelling of the limb, with or without redness, that:

  * extends from the joint above the injection site to the joint below the injection site, or beyond a joint (above or below the injection site), or
  * results in the circumference of the limb being twice the normal size

  
febrile |

Related to a fever — for example, febrile illness and febrile convulsions.  
  
Guillain–Barré syndrome |

An autoimmune condition that causes muscle weakness, numbness or paralysis.  
  
haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) |

Transplant of stem cells from blood or bone marrow  
  
HALO principle |

Health, Age, Lifestyle, Occupation. This helps assess which vaccines adults
need based on their risk factors.  
  
herd immunity |

A situation in which a large proportion of the population is immune to a
disease through previous vaccination or illness. As a result, it is highly
unlikely that the disease will spread from person to person. Non-immune people
are indirectly protected from the disease.  
  
humoral immunity |

The aspect of immunity that involves antibodies and other proteins to fight
infection.  
  
hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode (shock, collapse) |

The sudden onset of:

  * pallor or cyanosis
  * limpness (muscle hypotonia)
  * reduced responsiveness or unresponsiveness

This may occur after vaccination when no other cause is evident, such as a
vasovagal episode or anaphylaxis. The episode usually occurs 1–48 hours after
vaccination and gets better on its own without treatment.  
  
immunisation |

The process of inducing immunity to an infectious agent by giving a vaccine.  
  
immunisation provider |

Any person who provides vaccines to people. Immunisation providers can work in
many settings, including:

  * general practice
  * local council clinics
  * community centres
  * pharmacies
  * Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services
  * school-based immunisation programs
  * travel medicine clinics
  * hospitals
  * staff occupational health clinics
  * aged care facilities

  
immunity |

The ability of the body to fight off an infection. Immunity can result from
natural infections or from vaccination.  
  
immunocompromised |

Having an immune system that is weakened and unable to protect the body from
disease. It can be caused by disease (such as HIV infection or cancer) or some
medicines (such as those used in chemotherapy).  
  
immunogenicity |

The ability of a particular substance, such as a vaccine, to provoke an immune
response, or the degree of response it provokes.  
  
immunoglobulin |

A protein extracted from blood, sometimes called an antibody, that fights
infection. An injection of immunoglobulins provides temporary immunity against
certain infections (also known as passive immunisation).  
  
immunosuppression |

See [immunocompromised](/technical-terms/immunocompromised
"immunocompromised").  
  
immunosuppressive therapy |

Medicines used to treat certain conditions, but that also weaken the immune
system. Examples are chemotherapy, radiation therapy and oral corticosteroids.  
  
incubation period |

The time between exposure to an infectious agent and development of disease.
It can take days or weeks for an infection with a virus or bacterium to cause
an obvious illness.  
  
infant |

A person aged under 12 months.  
  
infection |

When bacteria or viruses invade the body. If the body cannot fight the
infection, it may cause disease.  
  
intradermal injection |

An injection into the surface layers of the skin. This type of injection is
used to administer BCG (bacille Calmette–Guérin) vaccine to prevent
tuberculosis.  
  
intramuscular injection |

An injection into the muscle. Vaccines are usually injected into a muscle in
the upper outer thigh or upper arm.  
  
intussusception |

A condition in which one portion of the bowel telescopes into the next portion
of the bowel, resulting in a blockage.  
  
invasive disease |

When bacteria are found in the blood, spinal fluid or another part of the body
that would normally be sterile. This term is often used in relation to
pneumococcal or meningococcal disease.  
  
IPC |

Institut Pasteur du Cambodge  
  
jaundice |

Yellow skin colour that may result from severe hepatitis.  
  
live vaccine |

A vaccine containing live viruses or bacteria that are weakened (attenuated)
to produce an immune response in the recipient without causing the serious
effects of the disease.  
  
MenACWY |

meningococcal ACWY  
  
minimum interval |

The shortest amount of time required between 2 doses of a vaccine to provide
an adequate immune response to the 2nd dose. If the interval between the doses
is shorter than the minimum interval, the vaccine may not be effective.  
  
National Immunisation Program |

A program in Australia that funds free vaccines for eligible people to
increase immunisation rates and help reduce vaccine-preventable diseases.  
  
pandemic influenza |

A global epidemic that results when a new strain of influenza virus appears in
the human population. It causes more severe disease in the population because
few people have immunity to the new strain.  
  
passive immunity |

Direct transfer or administration of antibodies to a non-immune person.
Examples are transfer of maternal antibodies to an infant before birth and
administration of immunoglobulins.  
  
polysaccharide vaccine |

A type of bacterial vaccine that contains a group of complex carbohydrates
(sugars) that make up the cell coating of the bacterium.  
  
post-exposure prophylaxis |

Providing immunoglobulin (or sometimes vaccine) to a person who has been
exposed to an infectious agent, in an effort to prevent them developing the
disease.  
  
pre-exposure prophylaxis |

Providing a medicine or vaccine to a person who may be at risk of a disease
but who has yet not been exposed to the infectious agent. This will help to
prevent them developing the disease if they are later exposed to it.  
  
precaution |

A medical condition or risk factor in a person that may increase the risk of
an adverse reaction to a vaccine, or could compromise the ability of the
vaccine to induce immunity. The benefits and risks should be assessed when
considering vaccination for a person with a precaution. See also
[contraindication](/technical-terms/contraindication "contraindication").  
  
preterm infant |

An infant born prematurely. Preterm infants are those born at <37 weeks
gestation. Extremely preterm infants are those born at <28 weeks gestation.  
  
reactogenicity |

The ability of a vaccine to cause adverse reactions, or the severity of
adverse reactions it causes.  
  
school-based program |

A method of delivering vaccines to children and adolescents. In Australia, it
is mostly used for vaccines that are given to adolescents in specific school
grades.  
  
seizure |

A sudden loss of consciousness and generalised, tonic, clonic, tonic–clonic or
atonic motor manifestations. Types of seizures include:

  * febrile seizures, with fever >38.5°C
  * afebrile seizures, without fever
  * syncopal seizures, with fainting (syncope, vasovagal episode) followed by seizure(s)

  
serological testing |

Testing for specific antibodies, or other markers of infection or immunity,
usually from a blood sample.  
  
solid organ transplant |

Transplant of a solid organ such as kidney, liver, heart or lung. Does not
include [haematopoietic stem cell transplant](/technical-terms/haematopoietic-
stem-cell-transplant-hsct "haematopoietic stem cell transplant \(HSCT\)")  
  
subcutaneous injection |

An injection into the tissue between the skin and the underlying muscle.  
  
syncope |

See [vasovagal episode](/technical-terms/vasovagal-episode-syncope-fainting
"vasovagal episode \(syncope, fainting\)")  
  
thrombocytopenia |

Abnormally low levels of platelets in the blood (<50 × 109/L)  
  
TRC |

updated Thai Red Cross  
  
vaccination |

The administration of a vaccine. If vaccination is successful, it results in
immunity.  
  
vaccine |

A product often made from extracts of killed viruses or bacteria, or from
live, weakened strains of viruses or bacteria. A vaccine can stimulate an
immune response that protects against natural infection.  
  
vasovagal episode (syncope, fainting) |

An episode that involves all of the following:

  * pallor and unresponsiveness, reduced responsiveness or feeling light-headed
  * bradycardia
  * resolution of symptoms with a change in position (supine position, head between knees or limbs elevated)

A vasovagal episode may occur while vaccine is being administered or shortly
after (usually within 5 minutes).  
  
virus |

A tiny living organism, smaller than a bacterium, that can cause infections.
Examples of diseases caused by viruses are measles, rubella, mumps, polio,
influenza and hepatitis B.  
  
Printed content may be out of date. For up to date information, always refer
to the digital version:

https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/technical-terms

## Who's responsible for the Handbook

  * [ATAGI](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/australian-technical-advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi)
  * [NHMRC](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/)
  * [Chief Medical Officer](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/who-we-are/leadership#chief-medical-officer)
  * [Department of Health and Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/)

## Useful links and tools

  * [Announcements](/contents/about-the-handbook/announcements "Announcements")
  * [Handbook tables](/resources/tables "Handbook tables")
  * [Handbook figures](/resources/figures "Handbook figures")
  * [Technical terms](/technical-terms "Glossary of technical terms")
  * [Abbreviations](/abbreviations "Abbreviations")

## More about Immunisation

  * [National Immunisation Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/national-immunisation-program)
  * [NIP Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/immunisation-throughout-life/national-immunisation-program-schedule)
  * [ATAGI statements](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/australian-technical-advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi#statements)
  * [Immunisation news](https://www.health.gov.au/news?f%5B0%5D=field_related_health_topics%3A1021)
  * [Immunisation resources](https://www.health.gov.au/resources?f%5B0%5D=field_related_health_topics%3A1021&f%5B1%5D=field_audience%3A446)
  * [NCIRS Factsheets](http://www.ncirs.org.au/health-professionals/ncirs-fact-sheets-faqs)

## Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website, the NICC and mobile
app.

[Provide feedback](/provide-feedback)

## Using the Handbook

  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-this-website/copyright)
  * [Disclaimers](https://www.health.gov.au/using-this-website/disclaimers)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-this-website/privacy)

## Mobile apps

[![Download from Apple App
Store](/sites/default/files/2021-05/App_Store_Badge_v2.svg)](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/immunisationhandbook/id1484584970)

[![Get it on Google
Play](/sites/default/files/2021-05/Google_Play_Store_badge_EN_v2.svg)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=au.gov.health.immunisationhandbook.immunisation_handbook&hl=en_AU&gl=AU&utm_source=Website&utm_campaign=AIH)

## Acknowledgement

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges First Nations peoples as
the Traditional Owners of Country throughout Australia, and their continuing
connection to land, sea and community. We pay our respects to them and their
cultures, and to all Elders both past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au/)

Back to top

Link copied

**Link** , **share** or **bookmark** directly to this section of the page.

