Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Skip to main content

[ ![Back to the homepage](/sites/default/files/2022-07/DHAC-Crest-AIH2x.png)
![Going back to the homepage](/sites/default/files/2022-07/DHAC-Crest-AIH-
standard_0.png) ](/ "Home")

### Sub menu

  * [About the Handbook](/contents/about-the-handbook "About the handbook")
  * [Contact us](/contact-us "Contact us")

Search  

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/home)
  * [Contents](/contents)
  * [Diseases](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases)
  * [Vaccines](/vaccines)
  * [Catch-up vaccination](/contents/catch-up-vaccination)
  * [Resources](/resources)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Table of contents](/contents)
  3. [Vaccine preventable diseases](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases)

[Vaccine preventable diseases](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases)

# Influenza (flu)

Information about influenza (flu) disease, vaccines and recommendations for
vaccination from the Australian Immunisation Handbook.

  * [ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&voice=Jack&readclass=main-content&url=https%3A%2F%2Fimmunisationhandbook.health.gov.au%2Fcontents%2Fvaccine-preventable-diseases%2Finfluenza-flu "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * Print 
  * Share 

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Influenza \(flu\)&url=https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/influenza-flu "Share to Twitter")
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/influenza-flu "Share to Facebook")
    * [Email](mailto:?subject= The Australian Immunisation Handbook | Influenza \(flu\)&body=https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/influenza-flu "Share via email")

Recently added

This page was added on **09 June 2018**.

Updates made

This page was updated on **11 May 2023**. View history of updates

Vaccination for certain groups of people is funded under the [National
Immunisation Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/national-immunisation-program) and by [states and
territories](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/immunisation/immunisation-throughout-life/national-immunisation-
program-schedule#state-and-territory-immunisation-schedules).

On this page:

On this page

## Overview

### What

Influenza is a common disease of the respiratory tract. It affects people of
all ages.

### Who

Annual influenza vaccination is recommended for everyone ≥6 months of age.

Influenza vaccination is particularly recommended for:

  * children aged 6 months to <5 years
  * adults aged ≥65 years
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
  * people with medical conditions that increase their risk of severe influenza
  * homeless people
  * pregnant women
  * healthcare workers, carers and household contacts of people in high-risk groups
  * residents, staff, volunteers and visitors to aged care and long-term residential facilities
  * commercial poultry and pork industry workers
  * people who provide essential community services
  * people who are travelling during influenza season

People with the following medical conditions have a higher risk of severe
influenza:

  * immunocompromising conditions, such as HIV, malignancy, functional or anatomical [asplenia](/technical-terms#asplenia), and chronic steroid use
  * receiving immuno-oncology therapy
  * received a haematopoietic stem cell or [solid organ transplant](/technical-terms#solid-organ-transplant)
  * cardiac disease
  * Down syndrome
  * obesity
  * chronic respiratory conditions
  * chronic neurologic conditions
  * chronic liver disease
  * other chronic illnesses that need medical follow-up or hospitalisation
  * long-term aspirin therapy in children (aged 6 months to 10 years)
  * preterm infants (<37 weeks gestation)

Also see [People at risk of severe disease from
influenza](https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccine-
preventable-diseases/influenza-flu#people-at-risk-of-severe-disease-from-
influenza).

### How

People are recommended to receive influenza vaccine every year.

Most people should receive 1 dose of influenza vaccine each year. However, the
following people should receive 2 doses, 4 weeks apart:

  * children aged 6 months to <9 years receiving influenza vaccine for the first time
  * people of any age receiving influenza vaccine for the first time after haematopoietic stem cell or [solid organ transplant](/technical-terms#solid-organ-transplant)

The type of vaccine used depends on the person’s age:

  * People aged 6 months to <65 years should receive a standard influenza vaccine.
  * People aged ≥65 years should receive adjuvanted (NIP-funded) or high-dose influenza vaccine, but may receive standard influenza vaccine if the adjuvanted or high-dose vaccine is unavailable.

### Why

Influenza is the most common vaccine-preventable disease in Australia.
Although it can be a mild disease, it can also cause very serious illness in
otherwise healthy people. It can require hospitalisation and can cause death.

See [Infographic. Vaccination for healthy ageing](/node/483).

## Recommendations

### All people aged ≥6 months

All people aged ≥6 months are recommended to receive influenza vaccine every
year

All people ≥6 months of age are recommended to receive annual influenza
vaccine.1,2

A single annual dose of influenza vaccine is recommended for most people.
Usually, receiving 2 separate doses in the same season is not recommended, but
not contraindicated.

The exception is that 2 doses at least 4 weeks apart are recommended for:

  * children aged 6 months to <9 years receiving influenza vaccine for the first time 
  * people of any age receiving influenza vaccine for the first time after haematopoietic stem cell or solid organ transplant 

Children and adults aged ≥2 years can receive [either standard influenza
vaccine or cell-based influenza vaccine](https://www.ncirs.org.au/our-
work/australian-immunisation-handbook/influenza-grade-assessments).

Influenza vaccine is NIP funded for certain groups where the benefits of
vaccination in preventing severe disease are higher, including: children 6
months to <5 years, people aged ≥65 years, Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander peoples aged ≥6 months, those with certain medical conditions aged ≥6
months and pregnant women. See [ATAGI advice on seasonal influenza vaccines
for 2023](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/atagi-advice-on-
seasonal-influenza-vaccines-in-2023) for NIP funded vaccines.

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/all-people-aged-6-months-are-
recommended-to-receive-influenza-vaccine-every-year)

### Infants and children

Children aged <5 years are recommended to receive influenza vaccine every year

Influenza vaccine is funded through the NIP for all children aged ≥6 months to
<5 years. For details see the [National Immunisation Program
Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-
vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule).

Infants and children aged <5 years have a higher risk of hospitalisation and
increased morbidity after influenza.3,4 This is true for all children, not
just those with pre-existing medical conditions.5-7

The Therapeutic Goods Administration registers specific brands of influenza
vaccine for use in children from 6 months of age. These may change each year.
See [Vaccine information](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/influenza-
flu#vaccine-information) and [Vaccines, dosage and
administration](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/influenza-flu#vaccines-
dosage-and-administration).

Preterm infants are recommended to receive influenza vaccine starting at the
chronological age of at least 6 months, if the infant is clinically stable. Do
not correct the age for prematurity.

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/children-aged-0)

### Adults

Adults aged ≥65 years are recommended to receive influenza vaccine every year

The adjuvanted influenza vaccine is funded through the NIP for all adults aged
≥65 years. For details see the [National Immunisation Program
Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-
vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule).

Either the adjuvanted influenza vaccine, Fluad Quad (NIP-funded) or the high
dose influenza vaccine, Fluzone High Dose Quadrivalent is [recommended in
preference](https://www.ncirs.org.au/our-work/australian-immunisation-
handbook/influenza-grade-assessments) to standard influenza vaccine for adults
aged ≥65 years. See also [Vaccine information](/contents/vaccine-preventable-
diseases/influenza-flu#vaccine-information).

Influenza-associated mortality rates are highest among adults aged ≥65 years.4
Vaccinating elderly people reduces hospitalisations from influenza and
pneumonia, and all-cause mortality.8

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/adults-aged-65-years-are-
recommended-to-receive-influenza-vaccine-every-year)

### Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people are recommended to receive
influenza vaccine every year

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people are recommended to receive annual
influenza vaccine.

Influenza vaccine is funded through the NIP for all Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people aged ≥6 months. For details see the [National
Immunisation Program
Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-
vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule).

The disease burden from influenza is significantly higher among Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people than among non-Indigenous Australians in all age
groups. See [Epidemiology](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/influenza-
flu#epidemiology) and [Vaccination for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people](/contents/vaccination-for-special-risk-groups/vaccination-for-
aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-people "Vaccination for Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people").4

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-
islander-people-are-recommended-to-receive-influenza-vaccine-every-year)

### People with medical conditions that increase their risk of influenza

People aged ≥6 months with medical conditions associated with an increased
risk of influenza disease and complications are recommended to receive
influenza vaccine every year

People aged ≥6 months with medical conditions specified in this [List.
Specified medical conditions associated with increased risk of influenza
disease and severe outcomes](/node/428) are recommended to receive annual
influenza vaccine.

Influenza vaccine is funded through the NIP for people with certain medical
conditions that increase their risk of severe influenza complications. For
details see the [National Immunisation Program
Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-
vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule).

People with these specific medical conditions have a higher risk of influenza
or severe outcomes from influenza.9-29

## People who have received a transplant

People who have received a transplant

People who have had a haematopoietic stem cell transplant or [solid organ
transplant](/technical-terms#solid-organ-transplant) and are receiving
influenza vaccine for the first time after transplant are recommended to
receive:

  * 2 doses at least 4 weeks apart the 1st time they receive influenza vaccine after the transplant
  * 1 dose each year after that

List. Specified medical conditions associated with increased risk of influenza
disease and severe outcomes

Vaccine doses for people with the risk conditions in this list are funded
under the NIP unless otherwise noted.

Conditions  
---  
Immunocompromising conditions including:

  * HIV [infection](/technical-terms#infection)
  * malignancy
  * chronic steroid use
  * [solid organ transplant](/technical-terms#solid-organ-transplant)
  * haematopoietic stem cell transplant

  
Functional or anatomical [asplenia](/technical-terms#asplenia), including:

  * sickle cell disease or other haemoglobinopathies
  * congenital or acquired [asplenia](/technical-terms#asplenia) (for example, splenectomy) or hyposplenia

  
Cardiac disease, including:

  * cyanotic congenital heart disease
  * congestive heart failure
  * coronary artery disease

  
Chronic respiratory conditions, including:

  * suppurative lung disease
  * bronchiectasis
  * cystic fibrosis
  * chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
  * chronic emphysema
  * Severe asthma (requiring frequent medical consultations or the use of multiple medicines)

  
Chronic neurological conditions, including:

  * hereditary and degenerative CNS diseases
  * [seizure](/technical-terms#seizure) disorders
  * spinal cord injuries
  * neuromuscular disorders

  
Chronic metabolic disorders, including:

  * Type 1 or 2 diabetes
  * amino acid disorders
  * carbohydrate disorders
  * cholesterol biosynthesis disorders
  * fatty acid oxidation defects, lactic acidosis
  * mitochondrial disorders
  * organic acid disorders
  * urea cycle disorders
  * vitamin/cofactor disorders
  * porphyrias

  
Chronic renal failure  
Long-term aspirin therapy in children aged 5 to 10 years  
Chronic liver diseasea  
Down syndromea  
Obesity (body mass index ≥30 kg per m2) a  
Harmful use of alcohola  
  
**Footnotes:**

**a:** Not funded under the NIP  
  
[View recommendation details](/recommendations/people-aged-6-months-with-
medical-conditions-associated-with-an-increased-risk-of-influenza-disease-and-
complications-are-recommended-to-receive-influenza-vaccine-every-year)

### Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding

Pregnant women are recommended to receive influenza vaccine in each pregnancy

Pregnant women are recommended to receive influenza vaccine in each pregnancy.

Influenza vaccine is funded through the NIP for all pregnant women. For
details see the [National Immunisation Program
Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-
vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule).

Women who acquire influenza during pregnancy have an increased risk of
morbidity and mortality.23 Women who acquire influenza are also at higher risk
of preterm birth.30-39

Vaccinating pregnant women also protects their infants from influenza in the
first 6 months of life. This is due to transplacental transfer of influenza-
specific antibodies.31,40,41

Influenza vaccine can safely be given to pregnant and breastfeeding women.

## Timing of influenza vaccination during pregnancy

Timing of influenza vaccination during pregnancy

Pregnant women can receive influenza vaccine during any stage of pregnancy.

Influenza vaccine can safely be given at the same time as dTpa (reduced
[antigen](/technical-terms#antigen) content diphtheria-tetanus-acellular
pertussis) vaccine and/or COVID-19 vaccine.

Women who received the previous year’s seasonal influenza vaccine early in
their pregnancy can receive the current seasonal influenza vaccine (when it
becomes available) later in the same pregnancy. Women who received vaccine
before becoming pregnant should be revaccinated during pregnancy to protect
the unborn infant.

Influenza vaccine can safely be given to breastfeeding women.

See [Table. Vaccines that are routinely recommended in pregnancy: inactivated
vaccines](/node/542) in [Vaccination for women who are planning pregnancy,
pregnant or breastfeeding](/node/441) for more details.

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/pregnant-women-are-recommended-
to-receive-influenza-vaccine-in-each-pregnancy)

### Occupational groups

Healthcare workers, carers and household contacts of people in high-risk
groups are recommended to receive influenza vaccine every year

Healthcare workers, carers and household contacts of people in high-risk
groups are recommended to receive annual influenza vaccine.

Healthcare workers, carers and household contacts who should be vaccinated
include:

  * all healthcare providers, particularly those caring for people who are immunocompromised
  * household contacts (including children ≥6 months of age) of people in high-risk groups, including people who provide home care to people at high risk of influenza
  * people working in early childhood education and care
  * staff or volunteers caring for homeless people

This is because these people can transmit influenza to people who have a
higher risk of complications from influenza infection.

Because of the high rate of influenza in the general population, vaccinating
employees can result in workplace benefits such as increased productivity and
reduced absenteeism.42 Employers should consider the benefits of offering
influenza vaccine in their workplace, particularly for occupations at higher
risk of influenza.

See [Recommended vaccines for people at increased risk of certain
occupationally acquired vaccine-preventable diseases](/contents/vaccination-
for-special-risk-groups/vaccination-for-people-at-occupational-
risk#recommended-vaccines-for-people-at-increased-risk-of-certain-
occupationally-acquired-vaccinepreventable-diseases) in [Vaccination for
people at occupational risk](/contents/vaccination-for-special-risk-
groups/vaccination-for-people-at-occupational-risk "Vaccination for people at
occupational risk").

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/healthcare-workers-carers-and-
household-contacts-of-people-in-high-risk-groups-are-recommended-to-receive-
influenza-vaccine-every-year)

Residents, staff, volunteers and visitors to aged care and long-term
residential facilities are recommended to receive influenza vaccine every year

All residents, staff, volunteers and visitors to aged care and long-term
residential facilities are recommended to receive annual influenza vaccine.

These people include inmates of correctional facilities and people in
immigration detention centres.

This is due to high rates of influenza transmission and complications during
outbreaks in these facilities.22,43-45

Because of the high rate of influenza in the general population, vaccinating
employees can result in workplace benefits such as increased productivity and
reduced absenteeism.42 Employers should consider the benefits of offering
influenza vaccine in their workplace, particularly for occupations at higher
risk of influenza.

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/residents-staff-volunteers-and-
visitors-to-aged-care-and-long-term-residential-facilities-are-recommended-to-
receive-influenza-vaccine-every-year)

Commercial poultry and pork industry workers are recommended to receive
influenza vaccine during an outbreak of avian or swine influenza

During an outbreak of avian influenza or swine influenza, influenza
vaccination is recommended for:46

  * people who work in the poultry or pork industries
  * people in regular close contact with poultry or pigs

Routine seasonal influenza vaccination does not protect against avian or swine
influenza. However, it is possible that, if a person is co-infected with avian
or swine and human strains of influenza virus, the 2 strains could reassort
and form a virulent strain. This strain could then spread from human to human
and start a pandemic. This was the case with the swine influenza pandemic in
2009.47

Influenza vaccination can also prevent humans from transmitting influenza to
animals.

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/commercial-poultry-and-pork-
industry-workers-are-recommended-to-receive-influenza-vaccine-during-an-
outbreak-of-avian-or-swine-influenza)

Essential services providers are recommended to receive influenza vaccine
every year

People who provide essential community services are recommended to receive
annual influenza vaccine.

Influenza infections can place considerable pressure on both public and
private healthcare services. Vaccinating people who provide essential services
can minimise disruption of essential activities during influenza outbreaks.

See [Recommended vaccines for people at increased risk of certain
occupationally acquired vaccine-preventable diseases](/contents/vaccination-
for-special-risk-groups/vaccination-for-people-at-occupational-
risk#recommended-vaccines-for-people-at-increased-risk-of-certain-
occupationally-acquired-vaccinepreventable-diseases) in [Vaccination for
people at occupational risk](/contents/vaccination-for-special-risk-
groups/vaccination-for-people-at-occupational-risk).

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/essential-services-providers-
are-recommended-to-receive-influenza-vaccine-every-year)

### Travellers

People who are travelling during the influenza season are recommended to
receive influenza vaccine

People who are travelling are recommended to receive influenza vaccine,
especially if influenza is circulating in the destination region or in
settings with increased risk of influenza circulation during the trip, such
as:48

  * travellers in large tourist groups (especially those including older people)
  * travellers on cruises
  * travellers participating in mass gatherings (for example travellers on pilgrimage to Mecca)

Australians who have received a current Southern Hemisphere influenza vaccine
and are travelling later in the year to the Northern Hemisphere during their
influenza season (usually October to May) may receive a second dose of
influenza vaccine before departure. Although the current formulation for use
in the Northern Hemisphere may be preferred, it is generally not available in
Australia. Depending on individual circumstances, a Northern Hemisphere
influenza vaccine administered overseas should be considered for optimal
protection while travelling. However, receiving a dose of the Southern
Hemisphere formulation before overseas travel is acceptable.

Factors that should be considered when deciding whether a traveller would
receive a second dose of influenza vaccine within the same year in Australia
before departure to the Northern Hemisphere include:

  * individual assessment of potential risk of influenza and severe outcomes, according to the itinerary and personal risk factors
  * similarity between the current Southern and Northern Hemisphere formulations of influenza vaccine
  * availability of a reliable influenza vaccine and feasibility of receiving it at the traveller’s destination

See also [Vaccination for international travellers](/contents/vaccination-for-
special-risk-groups/vaccination-for-international-travellers "Vaccination for
international travellers").

Similarly, returning residents who have recently received a Northern
Hemisphere influenza vaccine may also receive the current Southern Hemisphere
influenza vaccine.

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/people-who-are-travelling-
during-the-influenza-season-are-recommended-to-receive-influenza-vaccine)

### Other groups

Homeless people are recommended to receive influenza vaccine every year

Homeless people are recommended to receive annual influenza vaccine.

The living conditions of homeless people and their prevalence of underlying
medical conditions mean that they are predisposed to complications from, and
transmission of, influenza.

[View recommendation details](/recommendations/homeless-people-are-strongly-
recommended-to-receive-influenza-vaccine-every-year)

## Vaccines, dosage and administration

### Influenza vaccines available in Australia

All the influenza vaccines available in Australia are either split virion or
subunit vaccines. They are prepared from purified inactivated influenza
[virus](/technical-terms#virus) that has been cultivated in embryonated hens’
eggs (standard influenza vaccines and adjuvanted influenza vaccine) or
propagated in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells (cell-based influenza
vaccine).

All these vaccines are quadrivalent as they contain 4 influenza
[virus](/technical-terms#virus) strains – 2 influenza A subtypes and 2
influenza B lineages.

Standard (egg-based) influenza vaccines contain 15 µg of haemagglutinin per
strain per dose with no [adjuvant](/technical-terms#adjuvant). Similarly, the
available cell-based influenza vaccine contains 15 µg of haemagglutinin per
strain per dose with no [adjuvant](/technical-terms#adjuvant).

The available adjuvanted influenza vaccine is egg-based, and contains the
standard 15 µg of haemagglutinin per strain per dose, with MF59 as the
[adjuvant](/technical-terms#adjuvant). The adjuvanted influenza vaccine is
formulated to induce a greater immune response than standard influenza
vaccines.

High-Dose (egg-based) influenza vaccines contain 60 µg of haemagglutinin per
strain per dose with no [adjuvant](/technical-terms#adjuvant).

Although egg-based vaccines may contain traces of egg-derived protein
(ovalbumin), they contain less than 1 μg of ovalbumin per dose. See also
[Contraindications and precautions](/contents/vaccine-preventable-
diseases/influenza-flu#contraindications-and-precautions), and [Vaccinating
people with a known egg allergy](/contents/vaccination-for-special-risk-
groups/vaccination-for-people-who-have-had-an-adverse-event-following-
immunisation#vaccinating-people-with-a-known-egg-allergy) in [Vaccination for
people who have had an adverse event following immunisation](/node/437) _._

The Therapeutic Goods Administration website provides [product information for
each
vaccine](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=influenza&r).

See also [Vaccine information](/contents/vaccine-preventable-
diseases/influenza-flu#vaccine-information) and [Variations from product
information](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/influenza-flu#variations-
from-product-information) for more details.

 **Always check annual[seasonal influenza vaccine
statements](https://health.gov.au/resources). Vaccines and age eligibility
change from year to year.**

### All people aged ≥6 months

Fluarix Tetra

Sponsor:

GlaxoSmithKline Australia

Administration route:

Intramuscular injection

Registered for use in people aged ≥6 months.

Quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine, split virion

Each 0.5 mL monodose pre-filled syringe contains:

  * 15 µg haemagglutinin of each of the 4 recommended influenza virus strains
  * ≤0.05 µg ovalbumin
  * ≤5 µg formaldehyde
  * polysorbate 80
  * octoxinol 10

May contain traces of:

  * gentamicin
  * hydrocortisone
  * sodium deoxycholate

For Product Information and Consumer Medicine Information about Fluarix Tetra
visit the [Therapeutic Goods Administration
website](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=fluarix%20tetra).

[View vaccine details](/vaccines/fluarix-tetra)

FluQuadri

Sponsor:

Sanofi-Aventis Australia

Administration route:

Intramuscular injection

Registered for use in people aged ≥6 months.

Quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine, split virion

Each 0.5 mL monodose pre-filled syringe contains:

  * 15 µg haemagglutinin of each of the 4 recommended influenza virus strains

May contain traces of:

  * formaldehyde (≤100 µg)
  * octoxinol 9 (≤250 µg)
  * ovalbumin (≤1 µg)

For Product Information and Consumer Medicine Information about FluQuadri
visit the [Therapeutic Goods Administration
website](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=FluQuadri).

[View vaccine details](/vaccines/fluquadri)

Influvac Tetra

Sponsor:

Viatris Pty Ltd

Administration route:

Intramuscular injection, Subcutaneous injection

Registered for use in people aged ≥6 months.

Quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine, surface antigen.

Each 0.5 mL monodose pre-filled syringe contains:

  * 15 µg haemagglutinin of each of the 4 recommended influenza virus strains

and not more than:

  * ≤100 ng ovalbumin
  * ≤0.01 mg formaldehyde
  * 0.02 mg cetrimonium bromide
  * 1 mg sodium citrate
  * 0.2 mg sucrose
  * 1 ng gentamicin sulfate

May contain traces of:

  * tylosine tartrate
  * hydrocortisone
  * polysorbate 80

For Product Information and Consumer Medicine Information about Influvac Tetra
visit the [Therapeutic Goods Administration
website](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=influvac%20tetra).

[View vaccine details](/vaccines/influvac-tetra)

Vaxigrip Tetra

Sponsor:

Sanofi-Aventis Australia

Administration route:

Intramuscular injection, Subcutaneous injection

Registered for use in people aged ≥6 months.

Quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine, split virion.

Each 0.5 mL monodose pre-filled syringe contains:

  * 15 µg haemagglutinin of each of the 4 recommended influenza virus strains

May contain traces of:

  * ovalbumin (≤ 0.05 µg) 
  * neomycin (≤ 10.1 pg)
  * formaldehyde (≤ 30 µg)
  * octoxinol-9 (≤ 222.5 µg)

For Product Information and Consumer Medicine Information about Vaxigrip Tetra
visit the [Therapeutic Goods Administration
website](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=Vaxigrip%20Tetra).

[View vaccine details](/vaccines/vaxigrip-tetra)

### All people aged ≥2 years only

Flucelvax Quad

Sponsor:

Seqirus

Administration route:

Intramuscular injection

Registered for use in people aged ≥2 years.

Quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (surface antigen, prepared in cell
culture)

Each 0.5 mL monodose pre-filled syringe contains:

  * 15 µg haemagglutinin of each of the 4 recommended influenza virus strains

May contain traces of:

  * propiolactone
  * cetyltrimethylammonium bromide
  * polysorbate 80

For Product Information and Consumer Medicine Information about Flucelvax Quad
visit the [Therapeutic Goods Administration
website](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=Flucelvax%C2%AE%20Quad).

[View vaccine details](/vaccines/flucelvax-quad)

### All people aged ≥5 years only

Afluria Quad

Sponsor:

Seqirus

Administration route:

Intramuscular injection, Subcutaneous injection

Registered for use in people aged ≥5 years.

Quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine, split virion

Each 0.5 mL monodose pre-filled syringe contains:

  * 15 µg haemagglutinin of each of the 4 recommended influenza virus strains

May contain traces of:

  * sodium taurodeoxycholate (≤5 µg)
  * ovalbumin (<1 µg)
  * sucroseneomycin
  * sulfate
  * polymyxin B sulfate
  * propiolactone
  * hydrocortisone

For Product Information and Consumer Medicine Information about Afluria Quad
visit the [Therapeutic Goods Administration
website](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=afluria).

[View vaccine details](/vaccines/afluria-quad)

### Adults aged ≥60 years only

Fluzone High-Dose Quadrivalent

Sponsor:

Sanofi-Aventis Australia

Administration route:

Intramuscular injection

Registered for use in people aged ≥60 years.

Quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine, split virion.

Each 0.7 mL monodose pre-filled syringe contains:

  * 60 µg haemagglutinin of each of the 4 recommended influenza virus strains

May contain traces of:

  * formaldehyde (≤ 140 µg)
  * ovalbumin (≤ 1 µg)

For Product Information and Consumer Medicine Information about Fluzone High-
Dose Quadrivalent visit the [Therapeutic Goods Administration
website](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=Fluzone%20High-
Dose%20QIV&r=/).

[View vaccine details](/vaccines/fluzone-high-dose-quadrivalent)

### Adults aged ≥65 years only

Fluad Quad

Sponsor:

Seqirus

Administration route:

Intramuscular injection

Registered for use in people aged ≥65 years.

Adjuvanted quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine, surface antigen.

Each 0.5 mL monodose pre-filled syringe contains:

  * 15 µg haemagglutinin of each of the 4 recommended influenza virus strains. 

These are adjuvanted with MF59C.1. The adjuvant includes:

  * 9.75 mg squalene
  * 1.175 mg polysorbate 80
  * 1.175 mg sorbitan trioleate
  * 0.66 mg sodium citrate dihydrate
  * 0.04 mg citric acid monohydrate

May contain traces of:

  * kanamycin
  * neomycin
  * formaldehyde
  * barium sulfate
  * cetrimonium bromide
  * ovalbumin
  * hydrocortisone

For Product Information and Consumer Medicine Information about Fluad Quad
visit the [Therapeutic Goods Administration
website](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=fluad%20quad).

[View vaccine details](/vaccines/fluad-quad)

### Annual changes to influenza vaccines

Influenza vaccines can change from year to year with regard to:

  * which vaccines are registered by the Therapeutic Goods Administration
  * the indicated ages for each vaccine

Always check annual seasonal influenza
[statements](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/atagi-advice-on-
seasonal-influenza-vaccines-in-2023) published by the Australian Technical
Advisory Group on Immunisation on health.gov.au website and consult the
[product information for each
vaccine](https://www.ebs.tga.gov.au/ebs/picmi/picmirepository.nsf/PICMI?OpenForm&t=&q=influenza&r).

### Dose and route

Influenza vaccines available in Australia come in pre-filled syringes of 0.5
mL.

Shake the pre-filled syringe vigorously before injection. Influenza vaccines
are preferably given by [intramuscular injection](/technical-
terms#intramuscular-injection). However, they may also be given
subcutaneously.

Table. Recommended doses of influenza vaccine by age group

Age | Dose | Number of doses needed in 1st year of influenza vaccination |
Number of doses needed if person received 1 or more doses of influenza vaccine
in a previous season  
---|---|---|---  
6 months to <9 years | 0.5 mL | 2 (given 4 weeks apart) | 1  
≥9 years | 0.5 mL | 1 | 1  
People of any age who have recently had a haematopoietic stem cell transplant
or [solid organ transplant](/technical-terms#solid-organ-transplant) | 0.5 mL
| 2 (given 4 weeks apart) in 1st year after transplant | 2 (given 4 weeks
apart) in 1st year after transplant  
  
### Doses for children <9 years of age

Children aged 6 months to <9 years receiving influenza vaccine for the first
time need 2 doses at least 4 weeks apart. This maximises the immune response
to the vaccine strains.

Children who received 1 or more doses of influenza vaccine in a previous
season only need 1 dose of influenza vaccine in the current and future
seasons. 49,50

Follow standard recommendations when giving any extra dose(s) during the
current or future seasons (see [Table. Recommended doses of influenza vaccine
by age group](/node/530)).

### Doses for children ≥9 years and adults

People aged ≥9 years need 1 dose of influenza vaccine every year, regardless
of whether they have ever had influenza vaccine before.

For adults aged ≥65 years who have already received an adjuvanted influenza
vaccine in the current influenza season, an extra dose of standard influenza
vaccine in the same season is not recommended.

Similarly, if they have received a standard influenza vaccine, an extra dose
of adjuvanted influenza vaccine in the same season is not recommended.

Follow standard recommendations when giving any extra dose(s) during the
current or future seasons (see [Table. Recommended doses of influenza vaccine
by age group](/node/530)).

### Co-administration with other vaccines

People can receive influenza vaccines at any time before or after, or with,
most other vaccines, including COVID-19 vaccines.

For more information refer to [ATAGI Clinical guidance on use of COVID-19
vaccine in
Australia](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-
atagi-clinical-guidance-on-covid-19-vaccine-in-australia-in-2021).

For additional information regarding co-administration with the Novavax
COVID-19 vaccine (Nuvaxovid) refer to [ATAGI statement on the use of Novavax
COVID-19 vaccine (Nuvaxovid)](https://www.health.gov.au/news/atagi-statement-
on-the-use-of-novavax-covid-19-vaccine-nuvaxovid).

The safety of concomitant administration of the adjuvanted vaccines Fluad Quad
and Shingrix has not been studied. It is acceptable to co-administer these
vaccines on the same day if necessary. However, given the lack of data on co-
administration of these adjuvanted vaccines, it is preferable to separate
their administration by a few days.

See also [Contraindications and precautions](/contents/vaccine-preventable-
diseases/influenza-flu#contraindications-and-precautions) and [Pneumococcal
disease](/node/154).

### Interchangeability of influenza vaccines

Different age-appropriate brands are interchangeable for people who need 2
doses of influenza vaccine in a single season (see [Table. Recommended doses
of influenza vaccine by age group](/node/530)).

### Timing of influenza vaccination

Annual influenza vaccination is recommended before the influenza season
starts. Influenza circulation usually peaks between June and September in most
parts of Australia. However, influenza can occur year-round.

Protection is expected to last for the whole season, but optimal protection is
within the first 3–4 months after vaccination. Deferring vaccination to the
beginning of winter may result in greater immunity later in the season, but
may also result in missed opportunities for vaccination and lack of protection
if the influenza season starts early.

Immunisation providers need to weigh up these factors for each person, and
balance them with the challenge of vaccinating large numbers of people in a
short time.

Offer vaccination throughout the influenza season. It is never too late to
vaccinate, because influenza can circulate all year. In particular, pregnant
women and travellers can benefit from vaccination at any time of the year.

Children aged 6 months to <9 years who are receiving their 1st lifetime dose
should receive the vaccine as soon as possible after it becomes available.
This helps to ensure enough time to receive a 2nd dose (recommended ≥4 weeks
later) before the influenza season starts.

During 2022, amid the third year of the COVID-19 pandemic there was a
resurgence of influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus) circulation with the
reopening of international borders. The importance of influenza vaccination
should be emphasised. During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021, influenza vaccine
coverage was observed to decrease compared with 2020 in all children,
adolescents and in Indigenous adults.

COVID-19 vaccines can be co-administered (i.e. on the same day) with an
influenza vaccine.

If a person had a 2022 influenza vaccine in late 2022 or early 2023, they are
still recommended to receive a 2023 formulation of influenza vaccine.

## Contraindications and precautions

### Contraindications

The only absolute contraindications to influenza vaccines are:

  * [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) after a previous dose of any influenza vaccine
  * [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) after any component of an influenza vaccine

See Precautions for more details about influenza vaccination for people with a
known egg allergy.

### Precautions

#### People with egg allergy

None of the available influenza vaccines contain >1 µg of ovalbumin.

People with egg allergy, including a history of [anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis), can be safely vaccinated with any influenza vaccines
(including egg-based and cell-based vaccines) unless they have reported a
serious adverse reaction to influenza vaccines. See also [Vaccinating people
with a known egg allergy](/contents/vaccination-for-special-risk-
groups/vaccination-for-people-who-have-had-an-adverse-event-following-
immunisation#vaccinating-people-with-a-known-egg-allergy) in [Vaccination for
people who have had an adverse event following immunisation](/node/437).

##### People with known anaphylaxis egg allergy

People with a history of [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) to egg
should:

  * receive a full age-appropriate vaccine dose; do not split the dose into multiple injections (for example, a test and then the rest of the dose)

If there is significant parental or health professional anxiety, the vaccine
may be administered in primary care settings with a longer waiting period of
30 minutes.

Several published reviews, guidelines and reports suggest a very low risk of
[anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) associated with influenza
vaccination of egg-allergic people.51-56

A 2012 review of published studies included 4172 egg-allergic patients. 513 of
these patients reported a history of severe allergic reaction to egg. The
review found no cases of [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) after
receiving an inactivated influenza vaccine.55

The largest study in the review included 830 egg-allergic patients. 164 of
these patients reported a history of severe allergic reaction to egg. Only 17
(2%) of these patients experienced any adverse event.57 All adverse events
were mild, and included abdominal pain, hives and respiratory symptoms such as
wheezing.

##### People with known non-anaphylaxis egg allergy

People with a history of egg allergy (non-[anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis)) can receive an age-appropriate full dose of vaccine in any
immunisation setting. This includes sensitised children (that is, children who
are skin-prick or RAST-test positive) who have not yet eaten egg.

#### People with latex allergy

Although the product information for [Fluarix Tetra](/node/376) states that
some preparations of the vaccine cannot be considered latex-free, these
preparations are not supplied in Australia.

#### People with a history of Guillain–Barré syndrome

People with a history of [Guillain–Barré syndrome](/technical-
terms#guillain%E2%80%93barr%C3%A9-syndrome) (GBS) whose first episode was not
after influenza vaccination have an extremely low risk of recurrence of GBS
after vaccination. Influenza vaccination is recommended for these people.58-60

Influenza vaccination is generally not recommended for people with a history
of GBS whose first episode occurred with 6 weeks of receiving an influenza
vaccine. There is limited data on the risk of recurrence of GBS in people
where the first episode occurred within 6 weeks of influenza vaccination (i.e.
the first episode was possibly triggered by the vaccine). In these people,
discuss the potential for recurrence if vaccinated, the potential for
exacerbation following influenza [infection](/technical-terms#infection), and
other protective strategies (e.g. vaccination of household members).
Vaccination can be considered in special circumstances, such as when an
alternative cause for GBS, such as _Campylobacter
jejuni[infection](/technical-terms#infection)_, was found or the risk of
influenza disease is considered high.

##### People receiving immuno-oncology therapy

Some studies that included a small number of patients reported that people
receiving cancer immuno-oncology therapies (checkpoint inhibitors) may have a
higher risk of immune-related adverse events following immunisation with
influenza vaccine,61,62 but a more recent study on patients receiving
treatment with a single checkpoint inhibitor did not.63 The clinical
importance of this potential interaction is currently inconclusive.

Checkpoint inhibitors include:

  * CTLA-4 inhibitors (such as ipilimumab)
  * PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors (such as nivolumab or pembrolizumab)

Consult the person’s treating oncologist about the risks and benefits of
influenza vaccination in people taking these treatments.

#### Children who need both influenza vaccine and 13vPCV

Children can receive 13vPCV and influenza vaccine at the same visit if they
need both vaccines.

One study found a slightly higher risk of fever and [febrile](/technical-
terms#febrile) convulsions in children aged 6 months to <5 years (especially
those aged 12–24 months) when they received influenza vaccine and 13vPCV at
the same time, compared with receiving the vaccines separately. 64 The risk of
[febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) convulsions as about 18 more cases per
100,000 doses in children aged 6 months to <5 years. The highest risk was 45
per 100,000 doses in children aged 16 months. This is a relatively small risk
increase.

A later study did not show an association between co-administering these 2
vaccines and [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) seizures.65

Immunisation providers should advise parents and carers of the possible risk.

See [Pneumococcal disease](/node/154).

## Adverse events

Post-vaccination symptoms may mimic influenza [infection](/technical-
terms#infection). None of the influenza vaccines available in Australia
contain live influenza viruses, so they cannot cause influenza.

### Injection site reactions

Injection site reactions occur in more than 10% of people who receive standard
influenza vaccine intramuscularly. These include:66-68

  * induration
  * swelling
  * redness
  * pain

Studies directly comparing inactivated trivalent and quadrivalent formulations
in children and adults showed that the safety profiles were similar.69-72

### Systemic adverse events

1–10% of people who receive standard influenza vaccines will
develop:66-68,73-75

  * fever
  * malaise
  * myalgia

These adverse events may start a few hours after vaccination and may last for
1–2 days.66,67,73

Immediate adverse events following influenza vaccination are very rare. They
can include hives, angioedema or [anaphylaxis](/technical-
terms#anaphylaxis).51,56

People with a history of [anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis) after
eating eggs or a history of a severe allergic reaction after occupational
exposure to egg protein may receive influenza vaccination.51,56 See [People
with egg allergy](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/influenza-
flu#precautions) in [Contraindications and precautions](/contents/vaccine-
preventable-diseases/influenza-flu#contraindications-and-precautions).

### Adverse events after adjuvanted influenza vaccine

Clinical trials show a higher rate of injection site reactions in adults aged
≥65 years after receiving the adjuvanted influenza vaccine, compared with
standard influenza vaccines.

Around 30% of people who received Fluad reported injection site reactions,
compared with around 20% of people who received standard influenza vaccine.
Both groups reported similar rates (about 30%) of systemic reactions.76
Overall, a similar proportion of people vaccinated with Fluad Quad experience
injection site and systemic reactions as those vaccinated with Fluad.77

Rates of severe or serious adverse events do not increase after receiving the
adjuvanted vaccine. This has been shown in clinical trials and post-licensure
surveillance studies.76-79

Adjuvanted influenza vaccine is only registered for use in people aged ≥65
years. This vaccine is not recommended in younger people. However, clinical
trials in some younger populations and post-licensure safety data after an
adjuvanted vaccine was inadvertently given to younger people suggest a similar
safety profile to that seen in people aged ≥65 years.80-82

### Adverse events after High-Dose influenza vaccine

Clinical trials show a higher rate of mild to moderate injection site
reactions in adults aged ≥65 years after receiving the High-Dose influenza
vaccine, compared with standard influenza vaccines. There were no differences
in the frequency of severe local adverse events.

Some studies reported a slightly higher frequency of systemic events among
High-Dose influenza vaccine recipients compared with standard influenza
vaccines recipients, however events were mostly mild-moderate.

In a large active surveillance study, the frequency of any adverse event was
8.9% among High-Dose influenza vaccine recipients compared with 6.3% among
standard influenza vaccine recipients. However the frequency who sought
medical attention was similar between the groups.

### Adverse events after cell-based influenza vaccine

Cell-based influenza vaccines have a similar safety profile to standard
influenza vaccines. In one study among children and adolescents aged 4–17
years, injection site reactions were reported in 53% of people receiving cell-
based vaccine compared with 43% receiving standard influenza vaccine. Systemic
reactions were reported by 37% and 30%, respectively.83 Both injection site
and systemic reactions were typically mild to moderate; <1% were reported as
severe.

In another study in adults aged 18–60 years, injection site reactions were
reported in 29% of people receiving cell-based vaccine compared with 25%
receiving standard influenza vaccine. Systemic reactions were reported by 25%
and 23%, respectively.84 Injection site reactions were typically mild to
moderate; <1% were reported as severe. No severe systemic reactions were
reported.

### Fever and febrile convulsions in children aged <5 years

In 2010, higher rates of fever and [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile)
convulsions were reported in children aged <5 years after influenza
vaccination, especially in children aged <3 years.

Only the Seqirus (previously bioCSL) vaccines Fluvax and Fluvax Junior were
associated with this side effect. After vaccination with Fluvax or Fluvax
Junior, children <5 years of age had [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile)
convulsions at a rate of 4.4 per 1000 doses, compared with no such events
reported among children who received an alternative vaccine in the same
year.85

The Fluvax and Fluvax Junior vaccines are no longer available in Australia and
available Seqirus vaccines have been reformulated.

### Safety of influenza vaccine during pregnancy or breastfeeding

Influenza vaccine is safe to give during any stage of pregnancy or while
breastfeeding for both the mother and her baby.86-89 Several systematic
reviews have shown no association between influenza vaccination in pregnancy
and adverse birth outomes.90,91

Standard influenza vaccines are currently preferred for use in pregnancy
because a large body of evidence supports their safety in pregnant women.
While the use of cell-based influenza vaccines in pregnancy has not been
assessed, there are no theoretical concerns regarding their safety in pregnant
women.

### Guillain–Barré syndrome

In 1976, a small increased risk of [Guillain–Barré syndrome](/technical-
terms#guillain%E2%80%93barr%C3%A9-syndrome) (GBS) was associated with 1
influenza vaccine in the United States. Since then, close surveillance has
shown that GBS occurs at a very low rate of up to 1 in 1 million doses of
influenza vaccine.92 The risk of GBS following influenza illness is estimated
to be much higher to about 15 times the risk of GBS following influenza
vaccine.93,94 If GBS is suspected it is preferable that an experienced
clinician confirms the diagnosis so recommendations can be made regarding
future influenza vaccination.

See also People with a history of [Guillain–Barré syndrome](/technical-
terms#guillain%E2%80%93barr%C3%A9-syndrome), and [Uncommon and rare adverse
events following immunisation](/contents/vaccination-procedures/after-
vaccination#uncommon-and-rare-aefis) in [After vaccination](/node/188).

### Narcolepsy

Narcolepsy (sudden sleeping illness) has been associated with AS03-adjuvanted
[pandemic influenza](/technical-terms#pandemic-influenza) vaccines. This was
mainly seen in the Scandinavian population, and affected children
especially.95-97 These vaccines were not used, and have never been available,
in Australia.

The only registered adjuvanted influenza vaccine in Australia contains a
different [adjuvant](/technical-terms#adjuvant) (squalene-based MF59 oil-in-
water emulsion [adjuvant](/technical-terms#adjuvant)). Narcolepsy has not been
associated with influenza vaccine containing MF59 [adjuvant](/technical-
terms#adjuvant), although the number of subjects aged <20 years in these
studies was limited.98,99

## Nature of the disease

Influenza viruses are single-stranded RNA orthomyxoviruses. They are
classified antigenically as types A, B, C or D. Generally, only influenza A
and B cause severe disease in humans.100

### Surface glycoprotein antigens

Influenza viruses have 2 surface glycoprotein antigens:

  * haemagglutinin (H), which is involved in cell attachment during [infection](/technical-terms#infection)
  * neuraminidase (N), which facilitates the release of newly synthesised [virus](/technical-terms#virus) from the cell

Influenza A viruses can be classified into subtypes based on differences in
these surface antigens, but influenza B viruses cannot. There are 2 distinct
influenza B lineages that co-circulate in varying proportions from year to
year: B/Victoria and B/Yamagata.101,102

Antibodies against the surface antigens, particularly haemagglutinin, reduce
[infection](/technical-terms#infection) or severe illness due to influenza.

### Antigenic drift and seasonal influenza

The surface antigens of influenza A and influenza B viruses change often. The
changes involve stepwise mutations of genes coding for H and N glycoproteins.
This results in cumulative changes in influenza antigens, called antigenic
drift. Antigenic drift is responsible for the annual outbreaks and epidemics
of influenza. The composition of influenza vaccines needs to be reviewed every
year because of antigenic drift.

### Antigenic shift and pandemic influenza

Antigenic shift is a dramatic change in the H [antigen](/technical-
terms#antigen) (and other antigens) of influenza A. This occurs unpredictably
and infrequently.100Antigenic shift gives rise to [pandemic
influenza](/technical-terms#pandemic-influenza) subtypes by 1 of 2 ways:

  * an avian or other animal (such as swine) [virus](/technical-terms#virus) directly adapts so that it can infect humans
  * an avian or other animal (such as swine) [virus](/technical-terms#virus) mixes with a human [virus](/technical-terms#virus), called genetic reassortment

There have been 4 influenza pandemics in the 20th and 21st centuries:

  * 1918 (H1N1)
  * 1957 (H2N2)
  * 1968 (H3N2)
  * 2009 (H1N1)

Each of these pandemic strains replaced the previously circulating influenza A
subtype and went on to circulate as seasonal influenza.

More recently, various avian influenza A [virus](/technical-terms#virus)
subtypes have caused human infections. Examples are H5N1, H7N9 and H9N2.
Sustained human-to-human transmission of these subtypes has not been
reported.103,104

### Pathogenesis

The [incubation period](/technical-terms#incubation-period) for influenza is
usually 2 days, but ranges from 1 to 4 days. Virus can be detected in the
upper airway for up to 1 day before symptoms start and around 3–5 days after
illness finishes in adults. Children may shed [virus](/technical-terms#virus)
for up to 2 weeks. Severely immunocompromised people can shed
[virus](/technical-terms#virus) for months.100

### Transmission

People transmit influenza from person to person:

  * through [virus](/technical-terms#virus)-containing respiratory aerosols produced during coughing or sneezing
  * by direct contact with respiratory secretions100

Interspecies transmission (such as from birds to humans) can result in severe
illness. In rare cases, transmission of a novel [virus](/technical-
terms#virus) into the human population from animals can cause a pandemic.100

## Clinical features

### Symptoms of influenza

Influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus) [infection](/technical-
terms#infection) causes a wide spectrum of disease. People may have:

  * no or minimal symptoms
  * respiratory illness with systemic features
  * multisystem complications and death from primary viral or secondary bacterial pneumonia

#### Symptoms in adults

Fever is an obvious sign of [infection](/technical-terms#infection) and peaks
at the height of the systemic illness. Other symptoms are similar for
influenza A and B viruses, and include:

  * malaise
  * fever
  * chills
  * headache
  * anorexia
  * myalgia
  * cough
  * nasal discharge 
  * sneezing

#### Symptoms in children

The clinical features of influenza in infants and children are similar to
those in adults. However, children may have: 105

  * higher fevers
  * [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) convulsions
  * otitis media
  * gastrointestinal symptoms

Infection in young infants may be associated with more non-specific
symptoms.105,106

### Complications of influenza

Complications of influenza include:

  * acute bronchitis
  * croup
  * acute otitis media
  * pneumonia (primary viral and secondary bacterial pneumonia)
  * cardiovascular complications, including myocarditis and pericarditis
  * [encephalitis](/technical-terms#encephalitis) and/or [encephalopathy](/technical-terms#encephalopathy)
  * Reye syndrome
  * various haematological abnormalities

Secondary bacterial pneumonia is a common complication in people whose medical
condition makes them vulnerable to influenza. These people are at high risk
during epidemics, and may die of pneumonia or cardiac decompensation.

Secondary bacterial pneumonia is more common than primary viral pneumonia.

#### People at risk of severe disease from influenza

Severe disease from seasonal influenza is more likely in:9-29

  * older people
  * infants
  * Indigenous populations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in Australia)
  * people who have never been exposed to an antigenically related influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus)
  * people who are infected with a highly virulent viral strain
  * people with chronic conditions, such as heart or lung disease, renal failure, diabetes and chronic neurologic conditions
  * people who are immunocompromised
  * people with obesity (BMI ≥30 kg per m2)
  * pregnant women
  * people who smoke

Severe disease may also occur in otherwise healthy children and young adults.
Annual attack rates in the general community are typically 5–10%, but may be
up to 20% in some years. In households and ‘closed’ populations, attack rates
may be 2–3 times higher.107,108 However, because asymptomatic or mild
influenza illness is common and symptoms are non-specific, many influenza
infections are not detected.

Infections due to influenza A (H3N2) strains are more likely to lead to severe
morbidity and increased mortality than influenza B or seasonal influenza A
(H1N1) strains.100,109-111

## Epidemiology

Minor or major epidemics of influenza A or influenza B influenza occur in most
years, usually during the winter months in temperate regions. The impact of
influenza is often substantially underestimated.

Influenza activity varies from year to year, and depends on the circulating
[virus](/technical-terms#virus) and the population’s susceptibility.105
Changes in influenza detection methods have affected influenza detection and
notification patterns.112 This includes an increase in the routine use of PCR-
based laboratory testing in recent years.

During annual epidemics, morbidity and mortality are higher among older
adults, pregnant women and people with comorbidities.5,23,113,114

### Influenza in Australia

On average each year in Australia, influenza causes approximately 100 deaths
and 5100 hospitalisations.4 These numbers are widely believed to under-
represent the true burden of influenza disease in Australia.

In 2019, an Australian modelling study conducted a comprehensive measurement
of influenza disease burden during 2006–2015 in Australia.116 In this study,
the average excess influenza-associated respiratory mortality rate was 2.61
per 100,000 population, with the highest rates among those aged ≥65 years, at
16.4 per 100,000.116 The annual excess influenza-associated hospitalisation
rates were similarly highest in adults aged ≥65 years at 195.42 per 100,000
population, followed by children aged <6 months at 153.84 per 100,000
population.116

Another mathematical modelling study estimated the annual rate of seasonal
influenza-associated mortality to be as high as 26.8 per 100,000 population in
Australians aged ≥75 years.117 In Australia, as in other developed countries,
older people and children <5 years of age have the highest rates of influenza
hospitalisation.4,112,118,119 The disease burden from influenza is also
greater in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people than in non-Indigenous
Australians across all age groups.4

During the 2009 A(H1N1)pdm09 pandemic, the predominant clinical presentation
was mild to moderate illness. However, young healthy adults, pregnant women,
and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people were over-represented among
severe cases compared with previous seasonal outbreaks.4,120,121

In 2017, a severe influenza season with the highest levels of activity since
the 2009 pandemic year was recorded. New South Wales hospitals introduced
rapid influenza testing, which may have partly contributed to the increased
number of laboratory-confirmed notifications of influenza. Nationally, there
were about 750 deaths among notified cases of laboratory-confirmed influenza
in 2017,122 while Australian modelling has demonstrated that at least twice
the average number of deaths occurred in 2017 compared to the average for
2010–2018.117

During the COVID-19 pandemic there was reduced circulation of influenza
[virus](/technical-terms#virus) and lower levels of influenza vaccine coverage
compared to previous years. COVID-19 related public health measures and the
community’s adherence to public health messages have also likely had an effect
on transmission of acute respiratory infections, including influenza.123 As
the international borders have reopened from November 2021 and greater
population movement has occurred, a resurgence of influenza activity was
observed in 2022 with early season circulation.124 Ongoing seasonal
circulation of influenza is expected to continue emphasising that vulnerable
groups are at high risk of influenza complications if they are not vaccinated.

## Vaccine information

Each year, the World Health Organization recommends the strains to be included
in influenza vaccines based on global influenza epidemiology.125,126 The
Australian Influenza Vaccine Committee uses this recommendation to determine
the influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus) composition of vaccines for use
in Australia.127

#### Efficacy and effectiveness of influenza vaccines

The [efficacy](/technical-terms#efficacy) and effectiveness of influenza
vaccines of similar composition depend on the:

  * age and immunocompetence of the vaccine recipient
  * degree of similarity between the [virus](/technical-terms#virus) strains in the vaccine and those circulating in the community44,128-135

#### Quadrivalent influenza vaccines and trivalent influenza vaccines

Most evidence regarding the [efficacy](/technical-terms#efficacy) of
quadrivalent influenza vaccines was established on the basis of non-inferior
immune responses against the 3 strains in common with trivalent influenza
vaccines.

A systematic review estimated the [efficacy](/technical-terms#efficacy) of
trivalent standard influenza vaccine to be 59% against laboratory-confirmed
influenza in healthy adults <65 years old; this varies with influenza
season.136 Based on studies comparing the immune response of quadrivalent and
trivalent standard influenza vaccines, the overall [efficacy](/technical-
terms#efficacy) of the quadrivalent vaccines is expected to be similar to the
trivalent vaccines, noting that quadrivalent vaccines protect against an extra
influenza B lineage. In one season in the United States when the circulating
and vaccine strains were well matched, quadrivalent standard influenza
vaccines were about 54% effective against laboratory-confirmed influenza.137

#### Influenza vaccines in young children

Young children can receive influenza vaccine from 6 months of age. Because
these children are immunologically naive to influenza, they need 2 doses of
influenza vaccine when immunised for the first time. This maximises the immune
response to all vaccine strains.138,139

Young children gain similar levels of protection as older children and adults.
Vaccine effectiveness is approximately 65% against laboratory-confirmed
influenza in children aged 6–59 months in a season when the vaccine and
circulating strains are well matched.140-146

#### Influenza vaccines in adults aged ≥60 years

It is important to note that adjuvanted influenza vaccine is not registered
for 60 to 64 years, only high dose influenza vaccines are registered for
≥60-64 years of age.

Standard influenza vaccines provide less protection against influenza in
people aged ≥65 years than in younger people. Because of this, ‘enhanced’
formulations were developed to increase the immune system’s response to the
vaccine. These enhanced vaccines increase protection compared with standard
vaccines, especially against influenza A (H3N2), which is more common and
severe in older people.78,147

Most evidence on the effectiveness of adjuvanted influenza vaccine compares
trivalent adjuvanted vaccine with trivalent or quadrivalent standard influenza
vaccines. There are no studies directly comparing quadrivalent adjuvanted and
standard influenza vaccines. However, a study comparing quadrivalent and
trivalent adjuvanted influenza vaccines showed that the quadrivalent vaccine
was not inferior in terms of generating immune responses against the shared
strains, and was superior for the B strain not included in the trivalent
vaccine.77 In large post-licensure studies of community-dwelling adults aged
≥65 years, adjuvanted influenza vaccine was between 4.7% and 33% more
effective in preventing hospitalisation from influenza or pneumonia than
standard influenza vaccine.148-151

Most evidence on the effectiveness of high-dose influenza vaccines compares
trivalent high dose vaccine with trivalent or quadrivalent standard influenza
vaccines and with trivalent adjuvanted influenza vaccine. There are no studies
measuring effectiveness outcomes that directly compare quadrivalent high-dose
vaccine and standard influenza vaccines. However, a study comparing
quadrivalent and trivalent high-dose influenza vaccines showed that the
quadrivalent vaccine was not inferior in terms of generating immune response
against the shared strains, and was superior for both B strains not included
in the trivalent vaccine.152

Two post-licensure studies in adults aged ≥65 years found that the high-dose
influenza vaccine was between 23% and 47% more effective at preventing
influenza or penumonia associated mortality than standard influenza
vaccines.153,154 High-dose influenza vaccine was also found to be between 2.0%
and 27.0% more effective in preventing hospitalisation from influenza or
pneumonia than standard influenza vaccines in large post-licensure studies of
adults aged ≥65 years.155-165 A meta-analysis of 15 studies confirms this
greater protection against a range of influenza disease related outcomes.166

There are no studies that directly compare quadrivalent high-dose influenza
vaccine and quadrivalent adjuvanted influenza vaccine. Large post-licensure
studies comparing trivalent high-dose influenza vaccine and trivalent
adjuvanted influenza vaccine in adults aged ≥65 years, show little to no
difference between these two vaccines in effectiveness aginst a range of
influenza outcomes (relative vaccine effectiveness ranged from -3.0% and
7.7%).159,165

#### Influenza vaccines in pregnant women

In pregnant women, standard influenza vaccine is:167,168

  * approximately 50% effective in reducing laboratory-confirmed influenza
  * 65% effective against inpatient hospital admissions for acute respiratory illness

Vaccinating pregnant women against influenza also protects their infants
against laboratory-confirmed influenza. This is due to transplacental transfer
of high-titre influenza-specific antibodies. A recent systematic review
concluded that maternal influenza vaccination reduces laboratory-confirmed
influenza in infants <6 months of age by about 48%.169 The vaccine protects
infants for up to 6 months after birth.

#### Cell-based compared with egg-based vaccines

The cell-based influenza vaccine, Flucelvax Quad, is prepared in Madin-Darby
canine kidney (MDCK) cells. The [virus](/technical-terms#virus) is
inactivated, disrupted and purified through several steps. Eggs are not used
in the manufacturing process. Antigenic mismatch may be less likely to occur
for cell-based influenza vaccines than for standard influenza vaccines.
Repeated passages in eggs can result in an antigenic mismatch with the
circulating influenza strains. This issue has been particularly problematic
with some strains of A/H3N2 [virus](/technical-terms#virus), which requires
many passages in eggs to achieve high [virus](/technical-terms#virus)
titres.170,171

Studies have shown that cell-based influenza vaccine has similar effectiveness
against laboratory-confirmed influenza to standard influenza
vaccine.165,172-175

#### Duration of immunity

Protection against influenza requires annual vaccination with a vaccine
containing the most recent strains. Recent evidence suggests that protection
after influenza vaccination may begin to wane after 3–4
months.138,139,144,176-179 Low levels of protection may last another year for
some strains, if the prevalent circulating strain remains the same or if there
is only minor antigenic drift.44,135

It is not clear whether repeated annual vaccination affects year-to-year
vaccine effectiveness. An Australian study reported sustained or increased
vaccine effectiveness against influenza A and B illness and hospitalisation,
particularly among children aged 2–8 years who received influenza vaccine in
previous seasons.180 Also, data collected over 6 influenza seasons show that
repeated annual influenza vaccination among older people who live in the
community is associated with a 15% reduction in the risk of annual mortality
compared with first-time vaccination.181

However, a few studies, mainly in the United States, suggest that influenza
vaccines are not as effective if they are repeated year after year.182,183
Reduced effectiveness following repeated annual vaccination has not been
observed consistently across studies. Better understanding of these effects is
needed to determine clinical significance and guide recommendations.

Despite conflicting opinion about the impact of repeated annual vaccination on
vaccine effectiveness, vaccinated people are still better protected against
influenza than unvaccinated people.

## Transporting, storing and handling vaccines

Transport according to [National Vaccine Storage Guidelines: Strive for
5](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-vaccine-storage-
guidelines-strive-for-5).184 Store at +2°C to +8°C. Do not freeze. Protect
from light.

Discard influenza vaccines appropriately when they reach their expiry date.
This is to avoid accidentally using a product with the incorrect formulation
the following year.

## Public health management

Laboratory-confirmed cases of influenza are notifiable in all states and
territories in Australia.

The Communicable Diseases Network Australia [national guidelines for influenza
infection](http://www.health.gov.au/cdnasongs)185 have details about the
management of influenza cases and contacts.

[State and territory public health authorities](https://health.gov.au/health-
topics/immunisation/immunisation-contacts) can provide further advice about
the public health management of influenza, including in residential care
facilities.

## Variations from product information

### Egg allergy

The product information for Influvac Tetra lists allergy to egg as a
[contraindication](/technical-terms#contraindication).

The product information for Fluad Quad and Afluria Quad state that people with
egg allergy (non-[anaphylaxis](/technical-terms#anaphylaxis)) can receive an
age-appropriate dose.

The Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation recommends that all
people with egg allergies can receive an age-appropriate influenza vaccine.
See Precautions.

### Fluad Quad

The product information for Fluad Quad states that Fluad Quad should be given
intramuscularly.

The Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation recommends that Fluad
Quad can also be given subcutaneously.

### FluQuadri

The product information for FluQuadri states that FluQuadri should be given
intramuscularly.

The Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation recommends that
FluQuadri can also be given subcutaneously.

### Flucelvax Quad

The product information for Flucelvax Quad states that Flucelvax Quad should
be given intramuscularly. The Australian Technical Advisory Group on
Immunisation recommends that Flucelvax Quad can also be given subcutaneously.

### Fluzone High-Dose

The product information for Fluzone High-Dose states that Fluzone High-Dose
should be given intramuscularly.

The Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation recommends that
Fluzone High-Dose can also be given subcutaneously.

## References

  1. Grohskopf LA, Sokolow LZ, Broder KR, et al. Prevention and control of seasonal influenza with vaccines: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices – United States, 2016–17 influenza season. MMWR. Recommendations and Reports 2016;65(RR-5):1-54.
  2. World Health Organization (WHO). Vaccines against influenza WHO position paper – November 2012. Weekly Epidemiological Record 2012;87:461-76.
  3. Li-Kim-Moy J, Yin JK, Blyth CC, et al. Influenza hospitalizations in Australian children. Epidemiology and Infection 2017;145:1451-60.
  4. Li-Kim-Moy J, Yin JK, Patel C, et al. Australian vaccine preventable disease epidemiological review series: influenza 2006 to 2015. Communicable Diseases Intelligence 2016;40:E482-95.
  5. Izurieta HS, Thompson WW, Kramarz P, et al. Influenza and the rates of hospitalization for respiratory disease among infants and young children. New England Journal of Medicine 2000;342:232-9.
  6. Coffin SE, Zaoutis TE, Rosenquist AB, et al. Incidence, complications, and risk factors for prolonged stay in children hospitalized with community-acquired influenza. Pediatrics 2007;119:740-8.
  7. Ampofo K, Gesteland PH, Bender J, et al. Epidemiology, complications, and cost of hospitalization in children with laboratory-confirmed influenza [infection](/technical-terms#infection). Pediatrics 2006;118:2409-17.
  8. Jefferson T, Di Pietrantonj C, Al-Ansary LA, et al. Vaccines for preventing influenza in the elderly. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2010;(2):CD004876. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004876.pub3.
  9. Nokleby H, Nicoll A. Risk groups and other target groups – preliminary ECDC guidance for developing influenza vaccination recommendations for the season 2010–11. Eurosurveillance 2010;15(12):pii=19525.
  10. Siriwardena AN, Gwini SM, Coupland CA. Influenza vaccination, pneumococcal vaccination and risk of acute myocardial infarction: matched case-control study. CMAJ Canadian Medical Association Journal 2010;182:1617-23.
  11. Dao CN, Kamimoto L, Nowell M, et al. Adult hospitalizations for laboratory-positive influenza during the 2005–2006 through 2007–2008 seasons in the United States. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2010;202:881-8.
  12. Pérez-Padilla R, Fernández R, García-Sancho C, et al. Pandemic (H1N1) 2009 [virus](/technical-terms#virus) and Down syndrome patients. Emerging Infectious Diseases 2010;16:1312-4.
  13. Ciszewski A. Why young healthy adults should become a target group for the influenza vaccination: a cardiologist's point of view [letter]. Vaccine 2008;26:4411-2.
  14. Morgan OW, Bramley A, Fowlkes A, et al. Morbid obesity as a risk factor for hospitalization and death due to 2009 [pandemic influenza](/technical-terms#pandemic-influenza) A(H1N1) disease. PLoS One 2010;5(3):e9694.
  15. Van Kerkhove MD, Vandemaele KA, Shinde V, et al. Risk factors for severe outcomes following 2009 influenza A (H1N1) [infection](/technical-terms#infection): a global pooled analysis. PLoS Medicine 2011;8:e1001053.
  16. Phung DT, Wang Z, Rutherford S, Huang C, Chu C. Body mass index and risk of pneumonia: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Obesity Reviews 2013;14:839-57.
  17. Kok J, Blyth CC, Foo H, et al. Viral pneumonitis is increased in obese patients during the first wave of pandemic A(H1N1) 2009 [virus](/technical-terms#virus). PLoS One 2013;8(2):e55631.
  18. Louie JK, Acosta M, Samuel MC, et al. A novel risk factor for a novel [virus](/technical-terms#virus): obesity and 2009 [pandemic influenza](/technical-terms#pandemic-influenza) A (H1N1). Clinical Infectious Diseases 2011;52:301-12.
  19. González-Candelas F, Astray J, Alonso J, et al. Sociodemographic factors and clinical conditions associated to hospitalization in influenza A (H1N1) 2009 [virus](/technical-terms#virus) infected patients in Spain, 2009–2010. PLoS One 2012;7(3):e33139.
  20. Dixon GA, Moore HC, Kelly H, et al. Lessons from the first year of the WAIVE study investigating the protective effect of influenza vaccine against laboratory-confirmed influenza in hospitalised children aged 6–59 months. Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses 2010;4:231-4.
  21. Poole P, Chacko EE, Wood-Baker R, Cates CJ. Influenza vaccine for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2006;(1):CD002733. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD002733.pub2.
  22. Schembri S, Morant S, Winter JH, MacDonald TM. Influenza but not pneumococcal vaccination protects against all-cause mortality in patients with COPD. Thorax 2009;64:567-72.
  23. Mertz D, Kim TH, Johnstone J, et al. Populations at risk for severe or complicated influenza illness: systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ 2013;347:f5061.
  24. Zhang PJ, Cao B, Li XL, et al. Risk factors for adult death due to 2009 [pandemic influenza](/technical-terms#pandemic-influenza) A (H1N1) [virus](/technical-terms#virus) [infection](/technical-terms#infection): a 2151 severe and critical cases analysis. Chinese Medical Journal 2013;126:2222-8.
  25. Allard R, Leclerc P, Tremblay C, Tannenbaum TN. Diabetes and the severity of [pandemic influenza](/technical-terms#pandemic-influenza) A (H1N1) [infection](/technical-terms#infection). Diabetes Care 2010;33:1491-3.
  26. Sullivan-Bolyai JZ, Corey L. Epidemiology of Reye syndrome. Epidemiologic Reviews 1981;3:1-26.
  27. Glasgow JF. Reye's syndrome: the case for a causal link with aspirin. Drug Safety 2006;29:1111-21.
  28. Gill PJ, Ashdown HF, Wang K, et al. Identification of children at risk of influenza-related complications in primary and ambulatory care: a systematic review and meta-analysis. The Lancet Respiratory Medicine 2015;3:139-49.
  29. Paranjothy S, Dunstan F, Watkins WJ, et al. Gestational age, birth weight, and risk of respiratory hospital admission in childhood. Pediatrics 2013;132:e1562-9.
  30. Irving WL, James DK, Stephenson T, et al. Influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus) [infection](/technical-terms#infection) in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy: a clinical and seroepidemiological study. BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology 2000;107:1282-9.
  31. Zaman K, Roy E, Arifeen SE, et al. Effectiveness of maternal influenza immunization in mothers and infants. New England Journal of Medicine 2008;359:1555-64.
  32. Mak TK, Mangtani P, Leese J, Watson JM, Pfeifer D. Influenza vaccination in pregnancy: current evidence and selected national policies. The Lancet Infectious Diseases 2008;8:44-52.
  33. Black SB, Shinefield HR, France EK, et al. Effectiveness of influenza vaccine during pregnancy in preventing hospitalizations and outpatient visits for respiratory illness in pregnant women and their infants. American Journal of Perinatology 2004;21:333-9.
  34. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Committee on Obstetric Practice. ACOG Committee Opinion No. 468: Influenza vaccination during pregnancy. Obstetrics and Gynecology 2010;116:1006-7.
  35. MacDonald NE, Riley LE, Steinhoff MC. Influenza immunization in pregnancy. Obstetrics and Gynecology 2009;114:365-8.
  36. Eick AA, Uyeki TM, Klimov A, et al. Maternal influenza vaccination and effect on influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus) [infection](/technical-terms#infection) in young infants. Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine 2011;165:104-11.
  37. France EK, Smith-Ray R, McClure D, et al. Impact of maternal influenza vaccination during pregnancy on the incidence of acute respiratory illness visits among infants. Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine 2006;160:1277-83.
  38. Tamma PD, Steinhoff MC, Omer SB. Influenza [infection](/technical-terms#infection) and vaccination in pregnant women. Expert Review of Respiratory Medicine 2010;4:321-8.
  39. Englund JA, Mbawuike IN, Hammill H, et al. Maternal immunization with influenza or tetanus toxoid vaccine for passive antibody protection in young infants. Journal of Infectious Diseases 1993;168:647-56.
  40. Benowitz I, Esposito DB, Gracey KD, Shapiro ED, Vázquez M. Influenza vaccine given to pregnant women reduces hospitalization due to influenza in their infants. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2010;51:1355-61.
  41. Poehling KA, Szilagyi PG, Staat MA, et al. Impact of maternal immunization on influenza hospitalizations in infants. American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology 2011;204(6 Suppl 1):S141-8.
  42. Nichol KL, D'Heilly SJ, Greenberg ME, Ehlinger E. Burden of influenza-like illness and effectiveness of influenza vaccination among working adults aged 50–64 years. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2009;48:292-8.
  43. Savulescu C, Valenciano M, de Mateo S, Larrauri A, cycEVA Study Team. Estimating the influenza vaccine effectiveness in elderly on a yearly basis using the Spanish influenza surveillance network – pilot case-control studies using different control groups, 2008–2009 season, Spain. Vaccine 2010;28:2903-7.
  44. Dean AS, Moffatt CR, Rosewell A, et al. Incompletely matched influenza vaccine still provides protection in frail elderly. Vaccine 2010;28:864-7.
  45. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Robinson S, Smith P, et al. Influenza outbreaks at two correctional facilities – Maine, March 2011. MMWR. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 2012;61:229-32.
  46. World Health Organization (WHO), Western Pacific Region. WHO interim recommendations for the protection of persons involved in the mass slaughter of animals potentially infected with highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses. Manila, Philippines: WHO Western Pacific Region; 2004. <http://www.wpro.who.int/emerging_diseases/documents/WHO_interim_recommendation_26012004/en/index.html>
  47. Ma W, Kahn RE, Richt JA. The pig as a mixing vessel for influenza viruses: human and veterinary implications. Journal of Molecular and Genetic Medicine 2009;3:158-66.
  48. Marti F, Steffen R, Mutsch M. Influenza vaccine: a travelers' vaccine? Expert Review of Vaccines 2008;7:679-87.
  49. Walter EB, Neuzil KM, Zhu Y, et al. Influenza vaccine [immunogenicity](/technical-terms#immunogenicity) in 6- to 23-month-old children: are identical antigens necessary for priming? Pediatrics 2006;118:e570-8.
  50. Englund JA, Walter EB, Gbadebo A, et al. Immunization with trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine in partially immunized toddlers. Pediatrics 2006;118:e579-85.
  51. Greenhawt MJ, Li JT, Bernstein DI, et al. Administering influenza vaccine to egg allergic recipients: a focused practice parameter update. Annals of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology 2011;106:11-6.
  52. Mullins RJ, Gold MS. Influenza vaccination of the egg-allergic individual [letter]. Medical Journal of Australia 2011;195:52-3.
  53. Erlewyn-Lajeunesse M, Brathwaite N, Lucas JS, Warner JO. Recommendations for the administration of influenza vaccine in children allergic to egg. BMJ 2009;339:912-5.
  54. Kelso JM. Administration of influenza vaccines to patients with egg allergy: update for the 2010–2011 season [letter]. Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2010;126:1302-4.
  55. Des Roches A, Paradis L, Gagnon R, et al. Egg-allergic patients can be safely vaccinated against influenza [letter]. Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2012;130:1213-6.e1.
  56. Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy (ASCIA). Guidelines: vaccination of the egg-allergic individual. Sydney: ASCIA; 2017. <https://www.allergy.org.au/health-professionals/papers/vaccination-of-the-egg-allergic-individual>
  57. Gagnon R, Primeau MN, Des Roches A, et al. Safe vaccination of patients with egg allergy with an adjuvanted pandemic H1N1 vaccine. Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2010;126:317-23.
  58. Baxter R, Lewis N, Bakshi N, et al. Recurrent Guillain-Barre syndrome following vaccination. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2012;54:800-4.
  59. Kuitwaard K, van Koningsveld R, Ruts L, Jacobs BC, van Doorn PA. Recurrent Guillain-Barre syndrome. Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Psychiatry 2009;80:56-9.
  60. Wijdicks EF, Fletcher DD, Lawn ND. Influenza vaccine and the risk of relapse of Guillain–Barre syndrome. Neurology 2000;55:452-3.
  61. Laubli H, Balmelli C, Kaufmann L, et al. Influenza vaccination of cancer patients during PD-1 blockade induces serological protection but may raise the risk for immune-related adverse events. Journal for ImmunoTherapy of Cancer 2018;6:40.
  62. Schenk EL. Clinical outcomes of patients on check point inhibitor therapy who receive routine vaccinations. Journal of Clinical Oncology 2017;35 Suppl:e14597.
  63. Wijn DH, Groeneveld GH, Vollaard AM, et al. Influenza vaccination in patients with lung cancer receiving anti-programmed death receptor 1 immunotherapy does not induce immune-related adverse events. European Journal of Cancer 2018;104:182-7.
  64. Tse A, Tseng HF, Greene SK, Vellozzi C, Lee GM. Signal identification and evaluation for risk of [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) seizures in children following trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine in the Vaccine Safety Datalink Project, 2010–2011. Vaccine 2012;30:2024-31.
  65. Kawai AT, Martin D, Kulldorff M, et al. Febrile seizures after 2010–2011 trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine. Pediatrics 2015;136:e848-55.
  66. Mahajan D, Roomiani I, Gold MS, et al. Annual report: surveillance of adverse events following immunisation in Australia, 2009. Communicable Diseases Intelligence 2010;34:259-76.
  67. Mahajan D, Menzies R, Cook J, Macartney K, McIntyre P. Supplementary report: surveillance of adverse events following immunisation among children aged less than 7 years in Australia, 1 January to 30 June 2010. Communicable Diseases Intelligence 2011;35:21-8.
  68. Wood NJ, Blyth CC, Willis GA, et al. The safety of seasonal influenza vaccines in Australian children in 2013. Medical Journal of Australia 2014;201:596-600.
  69. Kieninger D, Sheldon E, Lin WY, et al. Immunogenicity, [reactogenicity](/technical-terms#reactogenicity) and safety of an inactivated quadrivalent influenza vaccine candidate versus inactivated trivalent influenza vaccine: a phase III, randomized trial in adults aged ≥18 years. BMC Infectious Diseases 2013;13:343.
  70. Domachowske JB, Pankow-Culot H, Bautista M, et al. A randomized trial of candidate inactivated quadrivalent influenza vaccine versus trivalent influenza vaccines in children aged 3–17 years. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2013;207:1878-87.
  71. Pépin S, Donazzolo Y, Jambrecina A, Salamand C, Saville M. Safety and [immunogenicity](/technical-terms#immunogenicity) of a quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine in adults. Vaccine 2013;31:5572-8.
  72. Greenberg DP, Robertson CA, Landolfi VA, et al. Safety and [immunogenicity](/technical-terms#immunogenicity) of an inactivated quadrivalent influenza vaccine in children 6 months through 8 years of age. Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal 2014;33:630-6.
  73. Kelly H, Carcione D, Dowse G, Effler P. Quantifying benefits and risks of vaccinating Australian children aged six months to four years with trivalent inactivated seasonal influenza vaccine in 2010. Eurosurveillance 2010;15(37):pii=19661.
  74. Li-Kim-Moy J, Yin JK, Rashid H, et al. Systematic review of fever, [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) convulsions and serious adverse events following administration of inactivated trivalent influenza vaccines in children. Eurosurveillance 2015;20(24):pii=21159.
  75. Pillsbury A, Cashman P, Leeb A, et al. Real-time safety surveillance of seasonal influenza vaccines in children, Australia, 2015. Eurosurveillance 2015;20(43):pii=30050.
  76. Frey SE, Reyes MR, Reynales H, et al. Comparison of the safety and [immunogenicity](/technical-terms#immunogenicity) of an MF59(R)-adjuvanted with a non-adjuvanted seasonal influenza vaccine in elderly subjects. Vaccine 2014;32:5027-34.
  77. Essink B, Fierro C, Rosen J, et al. Immunogenicity and safety of MF59-adjuvanted quadrivalent influenza vaccine versus standard and alternate B strain MF59-adjuvanted trivalent influenza vaccines in older adults. Vaccine 2020;38:242-50.
  78. Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, Inc. FDA advisory committee briefing document: Fluad – seasonal adjuvanted trivalent influenza vaccine (aTIV). Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee, meeting date: September 15, 2015. (Accessed Apr 2018). <http://wayback.archive-it.org/7993/20170404142718/https://www.fda.gov/downloads/AdvisoryCommittees/CommitteesMeetingMaterials/BloodVaccinesandOtherBiologics/VaccinesandRelatedBiologicalProductsAdvisoryCommittee/UCM461917.pdf>
  79. Villa M, Black S, Groth N, et al. Safety of MF59-adjuvanted influenza vaccination in the elderly: results of a comparative study of MF59-adjuvanted vaccine versus nonadjuvanted influenza vaccine in northern Italy. American Journal of Epidemiology 2013;178:1139-45.
  80. Vesikari T, Kirstein J, Devota Go G, et al. Efficacy, [immunogenicity](/technical-terms#immunogenicity), and safety evaluation of an MF59-adjuvanted quadrivalent influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus) vaccine compared with non-adjuvanted influenza vaccine in children: a multicentre, randomised controlled, observer-blinded, phase 3 trial. The Lancet Respiratory Medicine 2018;6:345-56.
  81. Vesikari T, Knuf M, Wutzler P, et al. Oil-in-water emulsion [adjuvant](/technical-terms#adjuvant) with influenza vaccine in young children. New England Journal of Medicine 2011;365:1406-16.
  82. Heikkinen T, Young J, van Beek E, et al. Safety of MF59-adjuvanted A/H1N1 influenza vaccine in pregnancy: a comparative cohort study. American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology 2012;207:177.e1-8.
  83. Nolan T, Chotpitayasunondh T, Capeding MR, et al. Safety and tolerability of a cell culture derived trivalent subunitinactivated influenza vaccine administered to healthy children andadolescents: A Phase III, randomized, multicenter, observer-blindstudy. Vaccine 2016;34:230-6.
  84. Ambrozaitis A, Groth N, Bugarini R, et al. A novel mammalian cell-culture technique for consistent production of a well-tolerated and immunogenic trivalent subunit influenza vaccine. Vaccine 2009;27:6022–9.
  85. Armstrong PK, Dowse GK, Effler PV, et al. Epidemiological study of severe [febrile](/technical-terms#febrile) reactions in young children in Western Australia caused by a 2010 trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine. BMJ Open 2011;1:e000016.
  86. Moro PL, Broder K, Zheteyeva Y, et al. Adverse events in pregnant women following administration of trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine and live attenuated influenza vaccine in the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, 1990–2009. American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology 2011;204:146.e1-7.
  87. Munoz FM, Greisinger AJ, Wehmanen OA, et al. Safety of influenza vaccination during pregnancy. American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology 2005;192:1098-106.
  88. Pool V, Iskander J. Safety of influenza vaccination during pregnancy [letter]. American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology 2006;194:1200.
  89. Tamma PD, Ault KA, del Rio C, et al. Safety of influenza vaccination during pregnancy. American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology 2009;201:547-52.
  90. Giles ML, Krishnaswamy S, Macartney K, Cheng A. The safety of inactivated influenza vaccines in pregnancy for birth outcomes: a systematic review. Human Vaccines and Immunotherapeutics 2019;15:687-99.
  91. Jeong S, Jang EJ, Jo J, Jang S. Effects of maternal influenza vaccination on adverse birth outcomes: A systematic review and Bayesian meta-analysis. PLoS One 2019;14:e0220910.
  92. Nelson KE. Invited commentary: influenza vaccine and Guillain-Barré syndrome – is there a risk? American Journal of Epidemiology 2012;175:1129-32.
  93. Kwong JC, Vasa PP, Campitelli MA, et al. Risk of Guillain-Barre syndrome after seasonal influenza vaccination and influenza health-care encounters: a self-controlled study. The Lancet Infectious Diseases 2013;13:769-76.
  94. Vellozzi C, Iqbal S, Broder K. Guillain-Barre syndrome, influenza, and influenza vaccination: the epidemiologic evidence. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2014;58:1149-55.
  95. Nohynek H, Jokinen J, Partinen M, et al. AS03 adjuvanted AH1N1 vaccine associated with an abrupt increase in the incidence of childhood narcolepsy in Finland. PLoS One 2012;7(3):e33536.
  96. Dauvilliers Y, Montplaisir J, Cochen V, et al. Post-H1N1 narcolepsy-cataplexy [letter]. Sleep 2010;33:1428-30.
  97. World Health Organization (WHO). Global Vaccine Safety: statement on narcolepsy and vaccination. 2011. (Accessed Apr 2018). <http://www.who.int/vaccine_safety/committee/topics/influenza/pandemic/h1n1_safety_assessing/narcolepsy_statement/en/>
  98. Kim WJ, Lee SD, Lee E, et al. Incidence of narcolepsy before and after MF59-adjuvanted influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 vaccination in South Korean soldiers. Vaccine 2015;33:4868-72.
  99. Tsai TF, Crucitti A, Nacci P, et al. Explorations of clinical trials and pharmacovigilance databases of MF59®-adjuvanted influenza vaccines for associated cases of narcolepsy. Scandinavian Journal of Infectious Diseases 2011;43:702-6.
  100. Bresee JS, Fry AM, Sambhara S, Cox NJ. Inactivated influenza vaccines. In: Plotkin SA, Orenstein WA, Offit PA, Edwards KM, eds. Plotkin's vaccines. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018.
  101. Barr IG, Jelley LL. The coming era of quadrivalent human influenza vaccines: who will benefit? Drugs 2012;72:2177-85.
  102. Moa AM, Muscatello DJ, Turner RM, MacIntyre CR. Epidemiology of influenza B in Australia: 2001–2014 influenza seasons. Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses 2017;11:102-9.
  103. Webster RG, Peiris M, Chen H, Guan Y. H5N1 outbreaks and [enzootic](/technical-terms#enzootic) influenza. Emerging Infectious Diseases 2006;12:3-8.
  104. Peiris M, Yuen KY, Leung CW, et al. Human [infection](/technical-terms#infection) with influenza H9N2. The Lancet 1999;354:916-7.
  105. Lester-Smith D, Zurynski YA, Booy R, et al. The burden of childhood influenza in a tertiary paediatric setting. Communicable Diseases Intelligence 2009;33:209-15.
  106. Iskander M, Kesson A, Dwyer D, et al. The burden of influenza in children under 5 years admitted to The Children's Hospital at Westmead in the winter of 2006. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health 2009;45:698-703.
  107. Neuzil KM, Zhu Y, Griffin MR, et al. Burden of interpandemic influenza in children younger than 5 years: a 25-year prospective study. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2002;185:147-52.
  108. Hurwitz ES, Haber M, Chang A, et al. Effectiveness of influenza vaccination of day care children in reducing influenza-related morbidity among household contacts. JAMA 2000;284:1677-82.
  109. Kwok KO, Riley S, Perera RA, et al. Relative incidence and individual-level severity of seasonal influenza A H3N2 compared with 2009 pandemic H1N1. BMC Infectious Diseases 2017;17:337.
  110. Lee BE, Mukhi SN, Drews SJ. Association between patient age and influenza A subtype during influenza outbreaks. Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology 2010;31:535-7.
  111. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Thompson MG, Shay DK, et al. Estimates of deaths associated with seasonal influenza – United States, 1976–2007. MMWR. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 2010;59:1057-62.
  112. Thompson WW, Shay DK, Weintraub E, et al. Influenza-associated hospitalizations in the United States. JAMA 2004;292:1333-40.
  113. Nielsen J, Mazick A, Glismann S, Mølbak K. Excess mortality related to seasonal influenza and extreme temperatures in Denmark, 1994–2010. BMC Infectious Diseases 2011;11:350.
  114. Meijer WJ, van Noortwijk AG, Bruinse HW, Wensing AM. Influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus) [infection](/technical-terms#infection) in pregnancy: a review. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand 2015;94:797-819.
  115. Newall AT, Wood JG, MacIntyre CR. Influenza-related hospitalisation and death in Australians aged 50 years and older. Vaccine 2008;26:2135-41.
  116. Milne G. Mathematical modelling to inform national seasonal influenza vaccination policy. Canberra: 2018.
  117. Muscatello DJ, Nazareno AL, Turner RM, Newall AT. Influenza-associated mortality in Australia, 2010 through 2019: High modelled estimates in 2017. Vaccine 2021;39:7578-83.
  118. Chiu C, Dey A, Wang H, et al. Vaccine preventable diseases in Australia, 2005 to 2007. Communicable Diseases Intelligence 2010;34 Suppl:ix-S167.
  119. Poehling KA, Edwards KM, Weinberg GA, et al. The underrecognized burden of influenza in young children. New England Journal of Medicine 2006;355:31-40.
  120. Flint SM, Davis JS, Su JY, et al. Disproportionate impact of pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza on Indigenous people in the Top End of Australia's Northern Territory. Medical Journal of Australia 2010;192:617-22.
  121. ANZIC Influenza Investigators, Webb SA, Pettila V, et al. Critical care services and 2009 H1N1 influenza in Australia and New Zealand. New England Journal of Medicine 2009;361:1925-34.
  122. Australian Government Department of Health. Information brief: 2017 influenza season in Australia – a summary from the National Influenza Surveillance Committee. Canberra: Australian Government Department of Health; 2017. [http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-surveil-ozflu-flucurr.htm/$File/2017-season-summary-22112017.pdf](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-surveil-ozflu-flucurr.htm/%24File/2017-season-summary-22112017.pdf)
  123. Olsen SJ, Azziz-Baumgartner E, Budd AP, et al. Decreased influenza activity during the COVID-19 pandemic - United States, Australia, Chile, and South Africa, 2020. MMWR Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 2020;69:1305-9.
  124. Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care. National 2022 Influenza Season Summary. Canberra: Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care; 2022. <https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/2022-12/aisr-2022-national-influenza-season-summary.pdf>
  125. World Health Organization (WHO). WHO consultation on the composition of influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus) vaccines for use in the 2023 Southern Hemisphere influenza season. Geneva: WHO; 2022. (Accessed 23 Feb 2023). <https://www.who.int/news-room/events/detail/2022/09/19/default-calendar/who-e-consultation-on-the-composition-of-influenza-virus-vaccines-for-use-in-the-2023-southern-hemisphere-influenza-season>
  126. World Health Organization (WHO). WHO recommendations on the composition of influenza [virus](/technical-terms#virus) vaccines. (Accessed May 2018). <http://www.who.int/influenza/vaccines/virus/recommendations/en/>
  127. Therapeutic Goods Administration. Australian Influenza Vaccine Committee (AIVC). 2020. (Accessed Feb 2023). <https://www.tga.gov.au/about-tga/advisory-bodies-and-committees/australian-influenza-vaccine-committee-aivc>
  128. Kelly H, Carville K, Grant K, et al. Estimation of influenza vaccine effectiveness from routine surveillance data. PLoS One 2009;4(3):e5079.
  129. Kelly H, Jacoby P, Dixon GA, et al. Vaccine effectiveness against laboratory-confirmed influenza in healthy young children: a case-control study. Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal 2011;30:107-11.
  130. Jefferson T, Rivetti A, Di Pietrantonj C, Demicheli V, Ferroni E. Vaccines for preventing influenza in healthy children. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2012;(8):CD004879. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004879.pub4.
  131. Shuler CM, Iwamoto M, Bridges CB, et al. Vaccine effectiveness against medically attended, laboratory-confirmed influenza among children aged 6 to 59 months, 2003–2004. Pediatrics 2007;119:e587-95.
  132. Joshi AY, Iyer VN, St Sauver JL, Jacobson RM, Boyce TG. Effectiveness of inactivated influenza vaccine in children less than 5 years of age over multiple influenza seasons: a case-control study. Vaccine 2009;27:4457-61.
  133. Heinonen S, Silvennoinen H, Lehtinen P, et al. Effectiveness of inactivated influenza vaccine in children aged 9 months to 3 years: an observational cohort study. The Lancet Infectious Diseases 2011;11:23-9.
  134. Jick H, Hagberg KW. Effectiveness of influenza vaccination in the United Kingdom, 1996–2007. Pharmacotherapy 2010;30:1199-206.
  135. Monto AS, Ohmit SE, Petrie JG, et al. Comparative [efficacy](/technical-terms#efficacy) of inactivated and live attenuated influenza vaccines. New England Journal of Medicine 2009;361:1260-7.
  136. Osterholm MT, Kelley NS, Sommer A, Belongia EA. Efficacy and effectiveness of influenza vaccines: a systematic review and meta-analysis. The Lancet Infectious Diseases 2012;12:36-44.
  137. Jackson ML, Chung JR, Jackson LA, et al. Influenza vaccine effectiveness in the United States during the 2015–2016 season. New England Journal of Medicine 2017;377:534-43.
  138. Andrews N, McMenamin J, Durnall H, et al. Effectiveness of trivalent seasonal influenza vaccine in preventing laboratory-confirmed influenza in primary care in the United Kingdom: 2012/13 end of season results. Eurosurveillance 2014;19(27):pii=20851.
  139. Castilla J, Martínez-Baz I, Martínez-Artola V, et al. Decline in influenza vaccine effectiveness with time after vaccination, Navarre, Spain, season 2011/12. Eurosurveillance 2013;18(5):pii=20388.
  140. Carlson SJ, Blyth CC, Beard FH, et al. Influenza disease and vaccination in children in Australia. Medical Journal of Australia 2021;215:64-7.e1.
  141. Blyth CC, Macartney KK, Hewagama S, et al. Influenza epidemiology, vaccine coverage and vaccine effectiveness in children admitted to sentinel Australian hospitals in 2014: the Influenza Complications Alert Network (FluCAN). Eurosurveillance 2016;21(30):pii=30301.
  142. Blyth CC, Jacoby P, Effler PV, et al. Effectiveness of trivalent flu vaccine in healthy young children. Pediatrics 2014;133:e1218-25.
  143. Heikkinen T, Heinonen S. Effectiveness and safety of influenza vaccination in children: European perspective. Vaccine 2011;29:7529-34.
  144. Pebody R, Andrews N, McMenamin J, et al. Vaccine effectiveness of 2011/12 trivalent seasonal influenza vaccine in preventing laboratory-confirmed influenza in primary care in the United Kingdom: evidence of waning intra-seasonal protection. Eurosurveillance 2013;18(5):pii=20389.
  145. Treanor JJ, Talbot HK, Ohmit SE, et al. Effectiveness of seasonal influenza vaccines in the United States during a season with circulation of all three vaccine strains. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2012;55:951-9.
  146. Fu C, He Q, Li Z, et al. Seasonal influenza vaccine effectiveness among children, 2010–2012. Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses 2013;7:1168-74.
  147. Falsey AR, Treanor JJ, Tornieporth N, Capellan J, Gorse GJ. Randomized, double-blind controlled phase 3 trial comparing the [immunogenicity](/technical-terms#immunogenicity) of high-dose and standard-dose influenza vaccine in adults 65 years of age and older. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2009;200:172-80.
  148. Mannino S, Villa M, Apolone G, et al. Effectiveness of adjuvanted influenza vaccination in elderly subjects in northern Italy. American Journal of Epidemiology 2012;176:527-33.
  149. Cocchio S, Gallo T, Del Zotto S, et al. Preventing the Risk of Hospitalization for Respiratory Complications of Influenza among the Elderly: Is There a Better Influenza Vaccination Strategy? A Retrospective Population Study. Vaccines 2020;8:344.
  150. Izurieta H, Chillarige Y, Kelman J, et al. Relative Effectiveness of Influenza Vaccines Among the United States Elderly, 2018-2019. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2020;222:278-87.
  151. Izurieta HS, Chillarige Y, Kelman J, et al. Relative Effectiveness of Cell-Cultured and Egg-Based Influenza Vaccines Among Elderly Persons in the United States, 2017-2018. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2019;220:1255-64.
  152. Chang LJ, Meng Y, Janosczyk H, Landolfi V, Talbot HK. Safety and [immunogenicity](/technical-terms#immunogenicity) of high-dose quadrivalent influenza vaccine in adults ≥65 years of age: a phase 3 randomized clinical trial. Vaccine 2019;37:5825-34.
  153. Shay DK, Chillarige Y, Kelman J, et al. Comparative effectiveness of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccines among US Medicare beneficiaries in preventing postinfluenza deaths during 2012-2013 and 2013-2014. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2017;215:510-7.
  154. Young-Xu Y, Thornton Snider J, Mahmud SM, et al. High-dose influenza vaccination and mortality among predominantly male, white, senior veterans, United States, 2012/13 to 2014/15. Euro Surveillance 2020;25.
  155. Doyle JD, Beacham L, Martin ET, et al. Relative and Absolute Effectiveness of High-Dose and Standard-Dose Influenza Vaccine Against Influenza-Related Hospitalization Among Older Adults-United States, 2015-2017. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2021;72:995-1003.
  156. Gravenstein S, Davidson HE, Taljaard M, et al. Comparative effectiveness of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccination on numbers of US nursing home residents admitted to hospital: a cluster-randomised trial. The Lancet - Respiratory Medicine 2017;5:738-46.
  157. Young-Xu Y, Snider J, Mahmud S, et al. Clinical effectiveness of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccination among veterans health administration patients: a crossover study. Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety 2018;27:392-3.
  158. Young-Xu Y, Russo E, Neupane N, Lewis M, Halchenko Y. Clinical effectiveness of high-dose trivalent vs. quadrivalent influenza vaccination among veterans health administration patients. Open Forum Infectious Diseases 2018;5:S292-S3.
  159. Izurieta HS, Chillarige Y, Kelman J, et al. Relative effectiveness of cell-cultured and egg-based influenza vaccines among elderly persons in the United States, 2017-2018. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2019;220:1255-64.
  160. Richardson DM, Medvedeva EL, Roberts CB, Linkin DR. Comparative effectiveness of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccination in community-dwelling veterans. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2015;61:171-6.
  161. Young-Xu Y, Van Aalst R, Mahmud SM, et al. Relative vaccine effectiveness of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccines among veterans health administration patients. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2018;217:1718-27.
  162. Young-Xu Y, Snider JT, van Aalst R, et al. Analysis of relative effectiveness of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccines using an instrumental variable method. Vaccine 2019;37:1484-90.
  163. Paudel M, Mahmud S, Buikema A, et al. Relative vaccine [efficacy](/technical-terms#efficacy) of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccines in preventing probable influenza in a Medicare Fee-for-Service population. Vaccine 2020;38:4548-56.
  164. Izurieta HS, Chillarige Y, Kelman J, et al. Relative effectiveness of influenza vaccines among the United States elderly, 2018-2019. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2020;222:278-87.
  165. Izurieta HS, Lu M, Kelman J, et al. Comparative effectiveness of influenza vaccines among US Medicare beneficiaries ages 65 years and older during the 2019-2020 season. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2021;73:e4251-e9.
  166. Lee JKH, Lam GKL, Shin T, et al. Efficacy and effectiveness of high-dose influenza vaccine in older adults by circulating strain and antigenic match: An updated systematic review and meta-analysis. Vaccine 2021;39 Suppl 1:A24-a35.
  167. Madhi SA, Cutland CL, Kuwanda L, et al. Influenza vaccination of pregnant women and protection of their infants. New England Journal of Medicine 2014;371:918-31.
  168. Regan AK, de Klerk N, Moore HC, et al. Effectiveness of seasonal trivalent influenza vaccination against hospital-attended acute respiratory infections in pregnant women: a retrospective cohort study. Vaccine 2016;34:3649-56.
  169. Nunes MC, Madhi SA. Influenza vaccination during pregnancy for prevention of influenza confirmed illness in the infants: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Human Vaccines and Immunotherapeutics 2017: [Epub ahead of print] doi:10.1080/21645515.2017.1345385.
  170. Barr IG, Donis RO, Katz JM, et al. Cell culture-derived influenza vaccines in the severe 2017-2018 [epidemic](/technical-terms#epidemic) season: a step towards improved influenza vaccine effectiveness. NPJ Vaccines 2018;9:44.
  171. Harding AT, Heaton NS. Efforts to Improve the Seasonal Influenza Vaccine. Vaccines 2018;6:19.
  172. Bruxvoort KJ, Luo Y, Ackerson B, et al. Comparison of vaccine effectiveness against influenza hospitalization of cell-based and egg-based influenza vaccines, 2017–2018. Vaccine 2019;37:5807–11.
  173. DeMarcus L, Shoubaki L, Federinko S. Comparing influenza vaccine effectiveness between cell-derived and egg-derived vaccines, 2017–2018 influenza season. Vaccine 2019;37:4015–21.
  174. Nolan T, Fortanier AC, Leav B, et al. Efficacy of a cell-culture-derived quadrivalent influenza vaccine in children. New England Journal of Medicine 2021;385:1485-95.
  175. Martin ET, Cheng C, Petrie JG, et al. Low influenza vaccine effectiveness against A(H3N2)-associated hospitalizations in 2016-2017 and 2017-2018 of the Hospitalized Adult Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness Network (HAIVEN). Journal of Infectious Diseases 2021;223:2062-71.
  176. Gherasim A, Pozo F, de Mateo S, et al. Waning protection of influenza vaccine against mild laboratory confirmed influenza A(H3N2) and B in Spain, season 2014–15. Vaccine 2016;34:2371-7.
  177. Kissling E, Nunes B, Robertson C, et al. I-MOVE multicentre case-control study 2010/11 to 2014/15: is there within-season waning of influenza type/subtype vaccine effectiveness with increasing time since vaccination? Eurosurveillance 2016;21(16):pii=30201.
  178. Kissling E, Valenciano M, Larrauri A, et al. Low and decreasing vaccine effectiveness against influenza A(H3) in 2011/12 among vaccination target groups in Europe: results from the I-MOVE multicentre case-control study. Eurosurveillance 2013;18(5):pii=20390.
  179. Sullivan SG, Komadina N, Grant K, et al. Influenza vaccine effectiveness during the 2012 influenza season in Victoria, Australia: influences of waning immunity and vaccine match. Journal of Medical Virology 2014;86:1017-25.
  180. Cheng AC, Macartney KK, Waterer GW, et al. Repeated vaccination does not appear to impact upon influenza vaccine effectiveness against hospitalization with confirmed influenza. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2017;64:1564-72.
  181. Voordouw AC, Sturkenboom MC, Dieleman JP, et al. Annual revaccination against influenza and mortality risk in community-dwelling elderly persons. JAMA 2004;292:2089-95.
  182. McLean HQ, Thompson MG, Sundaram ME, et al. Impact of repeated vaccination on vaccine effectiveness against influenza A(H3N2) and B during 8 seasons. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2014;59:1375-85.
  183. Ohmit SE, Thompson MG, Petrie JG, et al. Influenza vaccine effectiveness in the 2011–2012 season: protection against each circulating [virus](/technical-terms#virus) and the effect of prior vaccination on estimates. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2014;58:319-27.
  184. National vaccine storage guidelines: Strive for 5. 2nd ed. Canberra: Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing; 2013. <https://beta.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-vaccine-storage-guidelines-strive-for-5-2nd-edition>
  185. Communicable Diseases Network Australia (CDNA). Influenza [infection](/technical-terms#infection): CDNA national guidelines for public health units. Canberra: Australian Government Department of Health; 2011. <http://www.health.gov.au/cdnasongs>

Related vaccines

[Afluria Quad](/vaccines/afluria-quad)

[Fluad Quad](/vaccines/fluad-quad)

[Fluarix Tetra](/vaccines/fluarix-tetra)

[Flucelvax Quad](/vaccines/flucelvax-quad)

[FluQuadri](/vaccines/fluquadri)

[Fluzone High-Dose Quadrivalent](/vaccines/fluzone-high-dose-quadrivalent)

[Influvac Tetra](/vaccines/influvac-tetra)

[Vaxigrip Tetra](/vaccines/vaxigrip-tetra)

## Page history

Last updated

11 May 2023

Last reviewed

11 May 2023

Show all page updates (8)

11 May 2023

Updates to clinical guidance have been made throughout the chapter in line
with the 2023 ATAGI annual statement for seasonal influenza vaccines.

Updated information is provided on influenza vaccination and influenza
activity in the context of COVID-19 vaccination and the COVID-19 pandemic.

21 April 2022

  * Updated advice on co-administration of Fluad Quad and Shingrix vaccine has been provided
  * Fluzone High-Dose Quadrivalent is registered for use in Australia and is indicated in adults ≥60 years of age.
  * The indicated ages for Flucelvax Quad and Influvac Tetra have been extended. Flucelvax Quad can now be used in children ≥2 years of age. Influvac Tetra can now be used in children ≥6 months of age.

30 November 2021

Updated advice on co-administration of influenza vaccine and COVID-19 vaccine
has been provided.

13 April 2021

2021 Influenza seasonal updates.

Updates to influenza information in line with the ATAGI annual statement for
seasonal influenza vaccines. [Flucelvax Quad](/vaccines/flucelvax-quad
"Flucelvax Quad") is now registered for use in Australia and is indicated in
children and adults ≥9 years of age.

9 April 2020

2020 Influenza seasonal updates.

  * The indicated ages for FluQuadri and Influvac Tetra, have been extended. FluQuadri can now be used in children ≥6 months of age. Influvac Tetra can now be used in children aged ≥3 years of age.
  * Vaxigrip Tetra is now registered for use in Australia and is indicated in adults and children ≥6 months of age.
  * Fluad Quad (aQIV) is now registered for use in Australia and is indicated in adults ≥65 years of age.
  * Fluad TIV and FluQuadri Junior have been discontinued.
  * Fluzone High-Dose is not available in 2020.

20 September 2019

Editorial changes to recommendations for preterm infants, people travelling in
the influenza season, and co-administration with other vaccines.

Wording of recommendation for preterm infants updated to include recommended
age for vaccination.

Recommendation for people travelling in the influenza season updated to
include more specific guidance on vaccinating returning travellers who have
received the Northern Hemisphere vaccine.

Guidance under Co-administration with other vaccines updated.

9 April 2019

Updates to influenza information in line with the ATAGI annual statement for
seasonal influenza vaccines

ATAGI annual statement for seasonal influenza vaccines is available here:
<https://health.gov.au/resources/publications/atagi-advice-on-seasonal-
influenza-vaccines-in-2019>

  * The indicated ages for Fluarix Tetra and Afluria Quad have been extended. Fluarix Tetra can be used as a 0.5 mL dose in children aged 6 months and older, down from 3 years.
  * The recommendation for administration during pregnancy has been updated. Pregnant women can receive influenza vaccine during any stage of pregnancy. The timing of vaccination should be considered in relation to the influenza season and vaccine availability. Please refer to the recommendation for further details.
  * 'People who are travelling during the influenza season are strongly recommended to receive influenza vaccine, especially if influenza is circulating in the destination region or in settings with increased risk of influenza circulation during the trip. Please refer to the recommendations for travellers for further details.

9 April 2018

2018 Influenza seasonal updates. Updating the text to reflect the 2018
influenza season (Refer to Chapter 4.7 Influenza)

11 May 2023

Updates to clinical guidance have been made throughout the chapter in line
with the 2023 ATAGI annual statement for seasonal influenza vaccines.

Updated information is provided on influenza vaccination and influenza
activity in the context of COVID-19 vaccination and the COVID-19 pandemic.

21 April 2022

  * Updated advice on co-administration of Fluad Quad and Shingrix vaccine has been provided
  * Fluzone High-Dose Quadrivalent is registered for use in Australia and is indicated in adults ≥60 years of age.
  * The indicated ages for Flucelvax Quad and Influvac Tetra have been extended. Flucelvax Quad can now be used in children ≥2 years of age. Influvac Tetra can now be used in children ≥6 months of age.

30 November 2021

Updated advice on co-administration of influenza vaccine and COVID-19 vaccine
has been provided.

13 April 2021

2021 Influenza seasonal updates.

Updates to influenza information in line with the ATAGI annual statement for
seasonal influenza vaccines. [Flucelvax Quad](/vaccines/flucelvax-quad
"Flucelvax Quad") is now registered for use in Australia and is indicated in
children and adults ≥9 years of age.

9 April 2020

2020 Influenza seasonal updates.

  * The indicated ages for FluQuadri and Influvac Tetra, have been extended. FluQuadri can now be used in children ≥6 months of age. Influvac Tetra can now be used in children aged ≥3 years of age.
  * Vaxigrip Tetra is now registered for use in Australia and is indicated in adults and children ≥6 months of age.
  * Fluad Quad (aQIV) is now registered for use in Australia and is indicated in adults ≥65 years of age.
  * Fluad TIV and FluQuadri Junior have been discontinued.
  * Fluzone High-Dose is not available in 2020.

20 September 2019

Editorial changes to recommendations for preterm infants, people travelling in
the influenza season, and co-administration with other vaccines.

Wording of recommendation for preterm infants updated to include recommended
age for vaccination.

Recommendation for people travelling in the influenza season updated to
include more specific guidance on vaccinating returning travellers who have
received the Northern Hemisphere vaccine.

Guidance under Co-administration with other vaccines updated.

9 April 2019

Updates to influenza information in line with the ATAGI annual statement for
seasonal influenza vaccines

ATAGI annual statement for seasonal influenza vaccines is available here:
<https://health.gov.au/resources/publications/atagi-advice-on-seasonal-
influenza-vaccines-in-2019>

  * The indicated ages for Fluarix Tetra and Afluria Quad have been extended. Fluarix Tetra can be used as a 0.5 mL dose in children aged 6 months and older, down from 3 years.
  * The recommendation for administration during pregnancy has been updated. Pregnant women can receive influenza vaccine during any stage of pregnancy. The timing of vaccination should be considered in relation to the influenza season and vaccine availability. Please refer to the recommendation for further details.
  * 'People who are travelling during the influenza season are strongly recommended to receive influenza vaccine, especially if influenza is circulating in the destination region or in settings with increased risk of influenza circulation during the trip. Please refer to the recommendations for travellers for further details.

9 April 2018

2018 Influenza seasonal updates. Updating the text to reflect the 2018
influenza season (Refer to Chapter 4.7 Influenza)

[ Previous Human papillomavirus (HPV) ](/contents/vaccine-preventable-
diseases/human-papillomavirus-hpv "Go to previous page")

[ Next Japanese encephalitis ](/contents/vaccine-preventable-
diseases/japanese-encephalitis "Go to next page")

## In this section

##  [Table of contents](/contents)

  * [About the handbook](/contents/about-the-handbook)
  * [Fundamentals of immunisation](/contents/fundamentals-of-immunisation)
  * [Vaccination procedures](/contents/vaccination-procedures)
  * [Catch-up vaccination](/contents/catch-up-vaccination)
  * [Vaccination for special risk groups](/contents/vaccination-for-special-risk-groups)
  * [Vaccine preventable diseases](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases)
    * [Cholera](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/cholera)
    * [COVID-19](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/covid-19)
    * [Diphtheria](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/diphtheria)
    * [Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib)](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/haemophilus-influenzae-type-b-hib)
    * [Hepatitis A](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/hepatitis-a)
    * [Hepatitis B](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/hepatitis-b)
    * [Human papillomavirus (HPV)](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/human-papillomavirus-hpv)
    * Influenza (flu)
    * [Japanese encephalitis](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/japanese-encephalitis)
    * [Measles](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/measles)
    * [Meningococcal disease](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/meningococcal-disease)
    * [Mumps](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/mumps)
    * [Pertussis (whooping cough)](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/pertussis-whooping-cough)
    * [Pneumococcal disease](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/pneumococcal-disease)
    * [Poliomyelitis](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/poliomyelitis)
    * [Q fever](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/q-fever)
    * [Rabies and other lyssaviruses](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/rabies-and-other-lyssaviruses)
    * [Rotavirus](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/rotavirus)
    * [Rubella](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/rubella)
    * [Tetanus](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/tetanus)
    * [Tuberculosis](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/tuberculosis)
    * [Typhoid fever](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/typhoid-fever)
    * [Varicella (chickenpox)](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/varicella-chickenpox)
    * [Yellow fever](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/yellow-fever)
    * [Zoster (herpes zoster)](/contents/vaccine-preventable-diseases/zoster-herpes-zoster)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve the Australian Immunisation Handbook

What you were doing? (required)

What went wrong? (required)

Leave this field blank

Printed content may be out of date. For up to date information, always refer
to the digital version:

https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccine-preventable-
diseases/influenza-flu

**[All vaccine preventable diseases](/node/27)**

## Who's responsible for the Handbook

  * [ATAGI](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/australian-technical-advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi)
  * [NHMRC](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/)
  * [Chief Medical Officer](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/who-we-are/leadership#chief-medical-officer)
  * [Department of Health and Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/)

## Useful links and tools

  * [Announcements](/contents/about-the-handbook/announcements "Announcements")
  * [Handbook tables](/resources/tables "Handbook tables")
  * [Handbook figures](/resources/figures "Handbook figures")
  * [Technical terms](/technical-terms "Glossary of technical terms")
  * [Abbreviations](/abbreviations "Abbreviations")

## More about Immunisation

  * [National Immunisation Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/national-immunisation-program)
  * [NIP Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/immunisation-throughout-life/national-immunisation-program-schedule)
  * [ATAGI statements](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/australian-technical-advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi#statements)
  * [Immunisation news](https://www.health.gov.au/news?f%5B0%5D=field_related_health_topics%3A1021)
  * [Immunisation resources](https://www.health.gov.au/resources?f%5B0%5D=field_related_health_topics%3A1021&f%5B1%5D=field_audience%3A446)
  * [NCIRS Factsheets](http://www.ncirs.org.au/health-professionals/ncirs-fact-sheets-faqs)

## Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website, the NICC and mobile
app.

[Provide feedback](/provide-feedback)

## Using the Handbook

  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-this-website/copyright)
  * [Disclaimers](https://www.health.gov.au/using-this-website/disclaimers)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-this-website/privacy)

## Mobile apps

[![Download from Apple App
Store](/sites/default/files/2021-05/App_Store_Badge_v2.svg)](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/immunisationhandbook/id1484584970)

[![Get it on Google
Play](/sites/default/files/2021-05/Google_Play_Store_badge_EN_v2.svg)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=au.gov.health.immunisationhandbook.immunisation_handbook&hl=en_AU&gl=AU&utm_source=Website&utm_campaign=AIH)

## Acknowledgement

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges First Nations peoples as
the Traditional Owners of Country throughout Australia, and their continuing
connection to land, sea and community. We pay our respects to them and their
cultures, and to all Elders both past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au/)

Back to top

Link copied

**Link** , **share** or **bookmark** directly to this section of the page.

  *[dTpa]: diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis vaccine, reduced antigen content formulation
  *[GBS]: Guillain-Barré syndrome
  *[13vPCV]: 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
  *[RNA]: ribonucleic acid
  *[PCR]: polymerase chain reaction
  *[WHO]: World Health Organization
  *[DT]: diphtheria-tetanus vaccine
  *[ASCIA]: Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy
  *[CDNA]: Communicable Diseases Network Australia

