Skip to main contentSkip to main navigation

The information on the Medical Costs Finder is a guide only and should not be
used as a quote or medical diagnosis.

[![](data:image/svg+xml,%3csvg%20xmlns=%27http://www.w3.org/2000/svg%27%20version=%271.1%27%20width=%27720%27%20height=%27140%27/%3e)![Australian
Government Department of
Health](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)![Australian
Government Department of Health](https://gblmcfprod-static-
gwb2haftfsevewa7.z01.azurefd.net/_next/static/media/doh-
logo.43ff08e4.png?w=1920)![](data:image/svg+xml,%3csvg%20xmlns=%27http://www.w3.org/2000/svg%27%20version=%271.1%27%20width=%27268%27%20height=%27140%27/%3e)![Medical
Costs
Finder](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)![Medical
Costs Finder](https://gblmcfprod-static-
gwb2haftfsevewa7.z01.azurefd.net/_next/static/media/mcf-
wordmark.a96e5bc9.png?w=640)](/ "Home")

  * [For medical specialists](/medical-specialists)

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Search now](/search)
  * [Features](/features)
  * [Guide to costs](/guide-to-costs)
  * [How it works](/how-it-works)
  * [About](/about-mcf)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [For medical specialists](/medical-specialists)
  * [Disclaimer](/disclaimer)

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Portal privacy notice](/portal-privacy-notice)

# MCF Portal privacy notice

This collection notice explains how we manage personal information of medical
specialists and their authorised persons who use the Medical Costs Finder
(MCF) Portal

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)![](https://gblmcfprod-
static-
gwb2haftfsevewa7.z01.azurefd.net/_next/static/media/procedures.0c67c8e8.png?w=3840)

 **On this page:**

  * [What the MCF Portal is](/portal-privacy-notice#whatMcfPortalIs)
  * [Scope](/portal-privacy-notice#scope)
  * [Information we collect and store in the MCF Portal](/portal-privacy-notice#informationMcfPortal)
  * [When we collect your personal information from others](/portal-privacy-notice#whenPersonalInformation)
  * [Why we collect, use and disclose personal information](/portal-privacy-notice#whyPersonalInformation)
  * [When we disclose information to the Digital Identity Interim Oversight Authority](/portal-privacy-notice#oversightAuthority)
  * [Sharing your personal information](/portal-privacy-notice#shareInformation)
  * [How information in the MCF Portal is stored](/portal-privacy-notice#storedInformation)
  * [How you can access or correct your information](/portal-privacy-notice#accessInformation)
  * [Concerns and complaints](/portal-privacy-notice#concerns)
  * [Contact Details](/portal-privacy-notice#contactDetails)

## What the MCF Portal is

The MCF Portal is for medical specialists and their authorised
representatives. Specialists and their staff can enter information about
medical services including:

  * where services are provided
  * indicative fees
  * any gap arrangements they have with private health insurers.

The information is then published on the MCF website.

If you are a medical specialist and would like to publish your fees on the
Medical Costs Finder website, you will need to [sign up or log in(opens in new
tab)](https://medicalcostsfinderportal.health.gov.au/) to the MCF Portal.

[Medical Costs Finder Portal](https://medicalcostsfinderportal.health.gov.au/)

Access to the MCF Portal is restricted to approved users (users) who:

  * have registered to use the MCF Portal
  * agree to the [MCF Portal terms of use](/portal-terms-of-use)

## Scope

This collection notice applies to the [MCF Portal(opens in new
tab)](https://medicalcostsfinderportal.health.gov.au/).

It explains how we (the Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care) manage your personal information in relation to the MCF Portal
consistent with our obligations under the [Privacy Act 1988(opens in new
tab)](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00024) (the Privacy Act).

## Information we collect and store in the MCF Portal

We will collect and store your personal information to set up a user account
and provide access to the MCF Portal. This includes your:

  * full name
  * date of birth
  * email
  * unique identifier from when you verify your identity through PRODA or myGovID.

If you are a medical specialist, we will collect your:

  * specialities
  * Medicare provider number
  * Australia Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA) number.

We cannot create you a user account for the MCF portal without this
information.

We will also collect service information that users provide. This includes:

  * address
  * fee insurance and service information for each practice location for a medical specialist
  * business contact details (for example, phone and email)
  * appointment, access levels and contact details for an authorised person

When users access the MCF Portal, we will collect information about user
access and actions in audit logs.

If you register interest in a speciality for which the MCF Portal is not yet
available, we will collect your name, email and specialty.

## When we collect your personal information from others

We will only collect personal information from others with your consent. This
includes:

  * from PRODA or myGovID when you verify your identity
  * from a user you nominate as an authorised person, if you are a specialist
  * from a specialist you agree to represent, if you are an authorised person.

## Why we collect, use and disclose personal information

We collect, use and disclose personal information about you to:

  * set up a user account
  * validate a user's identity
  * register users and notify the outcome of registration requests
  * give access to and administer the MCF Portal
  * verify your identity if you contact our MCF Portal Support Team
  * receive registrations of interest and notify specialists when their specialty is available
  * get information about medical specialists for publication on the MCF website.

Your personal information may also be used or disclosed where you have
provided consent, or it is required or authorised by or under law.

## When we disclose information to the Digital Identity Interim Oversight
Authority

If you use the Australian Government Digital Identity System (the System) to
access the MCF Portal, we may provide the personal information linked to your
Digital Identity to Services Australia and the Digital Transformation Agency.
This is to assist them to perform functions on behalf of the Digital Identity
Interim Oversight Authority (Oversight Authority). These functions include:

  * identifying fraud
  * locating where a cyber security incident has been detected within the System.

For more information on how the Oversight Authority handles your personal
information, see the [Oversight Authority privacy notice(opens in new
tab)](http://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/digital-identity-interim-oversight-
authority-privacy-notice)

## Sharing your personal information

The law, including the [Privacy Act 1988(opens in new
tab)](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00024) (the Privacy Act),
protects your personal information.

Your personal information will not be disclosed to any other person, body, or
agency unless:

  * you give us permission, for example, to share with another Australian Government system or service
  * it is authorised or required by law
  * it meets one of the other exceptions in the Australian Privacy Principles

If we need to share information with a third party as part of our service to
you, the form you fill in will tell you about it.

Personal information you provide for publication to the MCF website may be
accessible overseas.

## How information in the MCF Portal is stored

Information collected in the MCF Portal is stored in a secure cloud service
hosted in the Department of Health and Aged Care. The information is stored in
Australia.

We will store your data in the MCF Portal in accordance with any requirements
under the [Archives Act 1983(opens in new
tab)](http://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00218)

## How you can access or correct your information

Our [privacy policy(opens in new
tab)](http://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/privacy-policy) provides
further information on how you access or correct your information.

If you need to correct your personal information in the MCF Portal, you can
either:

  * make amendments directly in the MCF Portal
  * contact the MCF Portal Support Team at [MCFportalSupport@health.gov.au](mailto:MCFportalSupport@health.gov.au)

## Concerns and complaints

Our [privacy policy(opens in new
tab)](http://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/privacy-policy) explains
how you can make a complaint if you think we have breached:

  * the Australian Privacy Principles
  * the Australian Government Agencies Privacy Code

The [privacy policy(opens in new
tab)](http://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/privacy-policy) also
explains how we will manage your complaint.

## Contact Details

Contact us to find out more about privacy within the department, or to make a
privacy enquiry or complaint.

  * Phone: 02 6289 1555
  * Freecall: 1800 020 103
  * Email: [MCFportalSupport@health.gov.au](mailto:MCFportalSupport@health.gov.au)
  * Post:
    * Privacy Officer
    * Department of Health and Aged Care
    * MDP 62
    * GPO Box 9848
    * Canberra ACT 2601

Date last updated: November 2022

 **Using the Medical Costs Finder**

  * [About](/about-mcf)
  * [Terms of use](/terms-of-use)
  * [Medical Costs Finder disclaimer](/disclaimer)

 **About the Department of Health and Aged Care**

  * [About the department](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Department of Health and Aged Care disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/social-media)

 **For medical specialists**

  * [Information for medical specialists](/medical-specialists)
  * [Access the MCF Portal](https://medicalcostsfinderportal.health.gov.au/)
  * [Portal help guide](https://medicalcostsfinderportal.health.gov.au/Signin?HelpGuide=1)

 **Help us improve**

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](https://www.health.gov.au/help-us-improve-
healthgovau?referrer=https://medicalcostsfinder.health.gov.au)

  * [Contact us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | Department of Health and Aged Care

