[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
      * [Overseas Visitors Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm "Visitors to Australia on a temporary visa are generally not eligible for free health care as resident of Australia are, you should consider taking out Overseas Visitors Health Cover to cover any medical costs while you are in Australia.")
      * [Overseas Student Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Students from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst studying in Australia.")
      * [Working visa applicants](/health_insurance/overseas/workingvisa.htm "Applicants for working visas - such as 482 and 485 visas - may be required to hold Overseas Visitors Health Cover.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Overseas Visitors & Overseas Students

If you are visiting Australia and hold a temporary visa you should consider
taking outÂ [Overseas Visitors Health Cover
(OVHC)](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm
"Overseas Visitors Health Cover"). If you need to visit a doctor or stay in
hospital while you are here, you could find yourself responsible for the full
cost of treatment, which can be very expensive.

In some cases, you may be required to take health insurance as a condition of
your visa. This applies to most student visa applicants, who are required to
hold [Overseas Student Health
Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Overseas
Student Health Cover"),Â [Working visa
applicants](/health_insurance/overseas/workingvisa.htm "Working visa
applicants")Â and others.

more

If you are visiting Australia and hold a temporary visa you should consider
taking out [Overseas Visitors Health Cover
(OVHC)](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm
"Overseas Visitors Health Cover"). If you need to visit a doctor or stay in
hospital while you are here you could find yourself responsible for the full
cost of treatment, which can be very expensive.

In some cases you may be required to takeÂ healthÂ insurance as part of your
visa conditions - for example, students are required to takeÂ [Overseas
Student Health Cover
(OSHC)](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Overseas
Student Health Cover"). Applicants for [working
visas](/health_insurance/overseas/workingvisa.htm "Working visa applicants"),
such as subclasses 482 (Temporary Skill Shortage) or 485 (Temporary Graduate),
are required to take OVHC that meets certain requirements. Other visitors may
also be required to take OVHC.

What type of cover should I purchase?

Visa type| Health insurance type  
---|---  
Student visa  
| You are required to holdÂ [Overseas Student Health
Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Overseas
Student Health Cover").  
  
Working visa| If you are an [applicant for a working
visa](/health_insurance/overseas/workingvisa.htm "Working visa applicants"),
including subclass 482 and subclass 485, you can purchase [Overseas Visitors
Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm
"Overseas Visitors Health Cover") to meet your needs. Make sure you select a
policy that meets your visa requirements.  
Any visa with condition 8501| You can purchaseÂ [Overseas Visitors Health
Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm "Overseas
Visitors Health Cover")Â to meet your needs. Make sure you select a policy
that meets your visa requirements.  
Any other visa|

  * If you do not have any form of Medicare benefits or you have reciprocal Medicare benefits, you can purchaseÂ [Overseas Visitors Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm "Overseas Visitors Health Cover")Â from an Australian or international insurer;
  * If you have an interim (usually blue) or full (usually green) Medicare card, you can purchaseÂ [Australian residents' private health insurance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "Overview of Health System").

  
  
### Medicare and visitors

If you are a visitor (but not student - seeÂ
[OSHC](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Overseas
Student Health Cover")) from the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, New
Zealand, Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Belgium, Norway, Slovenia, Malta
and Italy, you may apply for Medicare benefits underÂ [Reciprocal Health Care
Agreements](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/reciprocal-
health-care-agreements/when-you-visit-australia "Medicare: Reciprocal Health
Care Agreements")Â with Australia.

With reciprocal Medicare benefits, you may be able to receive immediate
necessary medical treatment in the public health system, but are not otherwise
entitled to benefits and should still consider taking outÂ
[OVHC](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm "Overseas
Visitors Health Cover").Â

If you are a recent migrant to Australia with permanent residency or you have
applied for permanent residency, you are generally eligible to apply for
interim or fullÂ [Medicare](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm
"What is covered by Medicare?")Â benefits and gain immediate access to health
care services. You can also purchase residents' [private health
insurance](/health_insurance/index.htm "Health insurance explained").

### Tips on health insurance for visitors

Benefits, membership costs and eligibility can vary greatly between insurers
and insurance policies. When buying any health insurance take care to ensure
the cover you select is suitable for your needs.

  *  **Check the waiting periods** of the policy. Most insurers will impose a 12 month [waiting period](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "Waiting periods") for cover on pre-existing conditions, and some may even **permanently exclude** pre-existing conditions, meaning they can never be covered.Â Because OVHC policies generally commence when you arrive in Australia, illnesses that develop while you are travelling to Australia are usually considered to be pre-existing. 
  * **Check the restrictions and exclusions** of the policy. Not everything will be covered in full and someÂ items may not be covered at all. Remember that hospital costs for overseas visitors, even in a public hospital, are generally higher than $1,000 per day. 
  * **Consider taking out the highest level of hospital cover you can afford.** To save money on premiums, you can choose to pay a higher excess rather than having a restriction or exclusion. 
  * **Check how much your policy will cover for pharmaceuticals** as most policies only have limited cover and will not adequately cover high-cost drugs such as those used as chemotherapy drugs in cancer treatment,Â which can cost tens of thousands of dollars. 
  * **If your visa status or Medicare eligibility changes** inform your insurer as soon as possible. Check with them that your policy is still suitable, as you may be able to swap to a residents' policy. 
  * **Keep your policy paid & up to date.** If your policy falls behind in payments, your insurer may refuse claims or cancel your membership. 
  * **If you are anticipating treatment, contact your insurer** Â and find out whether you will be covered and how much you will need to pay yourself. If you need treatment which is not covered by your insurer, ask the service provider to find out how much you will need to pay out of your own pocket. If possible, ask for a written quote.

* * *

#### Visitors to Australia

  * [Medicare: Reciprocal Health Care Agreements](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/reciprocal-health-care-agreements/when-you-visit-australia "Information for visitors to Australia from the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, New Zealand, Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Belgium, Norway, Slovenia, Malta and Italy.")

#### Problems and Enquiries

  * [Private Health Insurance Ombudsman](http://www.ombudsman.gov.au "An independent service to help consumers with health insurance problems and enquiries.")
  * [Translating and Interpreting Service](http://www.tisnational.gov.au/ "For non-English speaking consumers. The services of the translating and interpreting service are not charged to you.")

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

