[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

## Frequently Asked **Questions**

 **Click on a question to see the answer.Â**

If you can't find what you need in these Frequently Asked Questions, try our
[]( "Glossary")[Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Glossary")Â or our explanation
of how [Private Health Information
Statements](/health_insurance/howitworks/phis_guide.htm "Private Health
Information Statements") work.

Medibank cyber incident

    If you are a current or former Medibank or AHM member, please refer to Medibankâs website for the latest advice and updates:

<https://www.medibank.com.au/health-insurance/info/cyber-security/>

The Department of Health has also published advice on how to receive mental
health support if you are impacted:  
<https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/mental-health-support-
medibank-cyber-incident>

Covering dependants to age 31 and covering dependants with a disability

    

The Government has increased the maximum age of dependants for private health
insurance policies from 24 to 31 years and removed the age limit for
dependants with a disability. These changes were passed by Parliament in June
2021. It is optional for insurers to implement these policy changes.Â
Consumers can search this website for the new policies.

  
 _What is the definition of a dependent?_  
It is up to individual insurers to define a dependent in their policies.
However, the legislation outlines certain requirements for some aspects of the
definition, including age ranges and partner status.Â While the legislation
defines a dependent as a single person aged from 18 to 31 years, an insurer
can choose to define and implement their own age range for dependants. For
example, an insurer that currently has a maximum age for dependent as 24 years
in their insurer rules, _may_ increase the maximum age to 29 years rather than
31 years.Â

_What is the definition of a dependant with a disability?_  
The legislation defines a person with a disability as a participant in the
National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) who is aged 18 years or over. They
may have a partner. However, insurers will have some discretion to offer cover
to people with a disability who are not participating in the NDIS.

For more information, see the [Department of Health and Aged Care
website](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/budget-2020-21-private-
health-insurance-increasing-the-age-of-dependants "Age of dependants").

Premium Increases

    

Premium increases usually occur in April of each year. From 1 April 2023,
private health insurance will increase by a weighted industry average of 2.9%.
Not all products will change by the same percentage - some products may be
offered with either a lower or a higher price change when compared to the
industry or your insurerâs average. If your premium is increasing, your
health insurer is required to notify you in writing with updated policy
information and more information about the change.  
  
Some insurers are deferring the premium increase to a later date in the year.
Your insurer will contact you if they are making any premium increases or
deferring the premium increase. You can also contact your insurer for advice
about your premium.

Note that the Australian Government Rebate is adjusted each year in late
January. Because of this, insurers are not able to provide definitive
information on premium changes until February 2023.Â

For more information on this topic, see [Health Insurance Premium Increases
factsheet](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications-and-news-
pages/publication-pages/brochures-and-factsheets/factsheets/private-health-
insurance/health-insurance-premium-increases "Factsheet - Health Insurance
Premium Increases").

Coronavirus (COVID-19) update

    

If you are experiencing financial hardship and finding it difficult to pay
your premiums, please contact your insurer. Some insurers are offering premium
waivers or membership suspensions for members affected by the pandemic.

If you have any difficulty contacting your insurer or would like to lodge a
complaint, please contact the Commonwealth Ombudsman at
[](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/complaints/private-health-insurance-complaints
"Links - Private Health Insurance Ombudsman
\(PHIO\)")[www.ombudsman.gov.au](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/complaints/private-
health-insurance-complaints "Links - Private Health Insurance Ombudsman
\(PHIO\)").

For the latest information on COVID-19, please see
[www.health.gov.au](http://www.health.gov.au "Link - Department of Health").

Medical Costs Finder

    

The Medical Costs Finder is an online tool that is an initiative of the
Australian Federal Government. It lets you find out more about the cost of
specialist medical services.

It covers common services in and out of hospital that patients want to know
more about.

The toolâs results are based on the most recent publicly available
Government data about what people have paid for medical services. Select the
link below to find out more about this tool and to use the Medical Costs
Finder.

Please note this link will take you away from the PrivateHealth.gov.au
website: [Medical Cost Finder](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-
tools/medical-costs-finder "Medical Cost Finder")  
  
The Australian Government has announced the Medical Costs Finder tool will be
enhanced as part of a suite of private health insurance reforms. For further
information, visit the [Department of Health and Aged Care
website](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/budget-2020-21-private-
health-insurance-transparency-of-out-of-pocket-costs "Link - Department of
Health - Budget 2020-21: Private Health Insurance â transparency of out-of-
pocket costs").Â

Mental Health â waiting period exemption for higher benefits

    If you are on a hospital policy which provides restricted benefits for psychiatric care, then to access higher benefits you usually upgrade and complete a two month [waiting period](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "waiting period").

However, from 1 April 2018, you can upgrade without having to serve this
waiting period to access higher benefits for psychiatric care in a private
hospital.

This exemption applies only once per lifetime and can only be accessed if you
have already completed an initial two months of membership on any level of
hospital cover.

For more information about accessing the exemption, please contact your health
insurer.

For general information about the exemption, see the Department of Health
website:
[](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
privatehealth-supporting-mental-health "Supporting mental Health - Waiting
period exemption for higher benefits")[waiting periods and
exemptions](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-
private-health-insurance-covers/waiting-periods-and-exemptions "Link -
Department of Health - waiting periods and exemptions")

What should I look out for when reviewing my insurance?

    The Private Health Insurance Ombudsman recommends reviewing your policy at least once a year - your circumstances may change from time to time, so itâs important to review your health insurance policy regularly to make sure it still meets your health needs. For example, if you chose a hospital policy with restricted or excluded hospital services, you may want to increase your hospital cover as you reach certain life stages. For more information, see [Managing your policy](/health_insurance/howitworks/managing_your_policy.htm "Managing your policy").
I've just turned 30; do I have to purchase private health insurance?

    Private health insurance is optional - however if you don't purchase hospital cover by the 1st of July following your 31st birthday, you will pay the Lifetime Health Cover loading on top of the premium of any hospital cover you later purchase. See [Lifetime Health Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm "Lifetime Health Cover") for further information.
I've just become a permanent resident; can I purchase private hospital cover
without Lifetime Health Cover loading?

    Yes. If you are over 31, you have one year from the date you registered for your first interim (blue card) or full (green card) Medicare benefits to purchase private hospital cover without incurring a loading.

If you are under 31, you have until the 1 July following your 31st birthday to
purchase private hospital cover without incurring a loading.

See [Lifetime Health
Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm
"Lifetime Health Cover") for further information.

 _Please note that general treatment (extras) cover, overseas visitors' cover,
overseas student cover or international health cover does not qualify for
Lifetime Health Cover purposes._

Iâve just received a letter about Lifetime Health Cover. What do I need to
do?

    Each year, the Department of Health and Aged Care posts letters to Australian citizens and permanent residents who recently turned 31 or registered for full Medicare benefits. The letters are sent to inform you about the [Lifetime Health Cover (LHC)](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm "Lifetime Health Cover") rules, which may affect whether you decide to purchase private hospital insurance.  
  

 _Please note that general treatment (extras) cover, overseas visitorsâ
cover, overseas student cover or international health cover does not qualify
for Lifetime Health Cover purposes._

Private health insurance is optional in Australia but you should be aware that
if you want to join, the cost of hospital insurance will vary depending on
your age:

 **If you have turned or will turn 31 during the 2022-23 financial year** \-
You have until 30 June 2023 to purchase private hospital cover without
incurring LHC âloadingâ. If you purchase hospital insurance from 1 July
2023 onwards, then you will incur a loading which increases the cost of
insurance. The older you are at the time of purchase, the higher the cost. If
this applies to you and you have already taken out eligible hospital cover,
then you donât need to take any further action.

 **If you are aged 31 or over, and you registered for interim or full Medicare
benefits (usually a blue or green card)** Â â You have until the first
anniversary of the date you registered for your Medicare card to purchase
private hospital cover without incurring LHC âloadingâ. If you purchase
hospital insurance after the anniversary date has lapsed, then you will incur
a loading which increases the cost of insurance. The older you are at the time
of purchase, the higher the cost. If you start private hospital cover within 1
year of Medicare registration, you will need to confirm your registration date
by requesting a letter from Medicare - [contact Medicare (Services
Australia)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us "Link
- Services Australia - Contact Us") or visit your local Medicare branch.
Supply the letter to your health insurer on or after joining to have your
loading reassessed.

 **Some exceptions may apply if you are overseas on your LHC deadline day.**
For more information, please refer to [Lifetime Health
Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm
"Lifetime Health Cover").  
  
 **I already have hospital insurance - do I need to take any action**?Â If you
already have hospital insurance and the correct LHC loading has been applied
to your policy, then you don't need to take any further action. If you are not
sure if the correct LHC loading has been applied, or if you think there has
been an error, contact your health insurer for more information.  
  
**If you are experiencing financial hardship due to COVID-19** , please
contact your insurer or potential insurer to discuss your options.  

I'm applying for a 482 or 485 visa; do I need private health insurance?

    Yes. It is a condition of applying for a Visa Subclass 482 or 485 to make arrangements for a minimum level of health insurance. SeeÂ [Overseas visitors & overseas students](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Overseas visitors & overseas students") for further information.
I am visiting Australia from overseas; do I need to take out health cover?

    Even if it's not a requirement under your visa, it is well worth considering taking out cover. If you need to visit a doctor or stay in hospital while you're here, you could be responsible for the full cost of treatment, which can be very expensive.

If you are visiting from a country that has a reciprocal health care agreement
with Australia you may be eligible to receive immediate necessary treatment in
Australia's public system Medicare, but should still consider taking out
cover.

Some visas may require you to hold private insurance while you're in
Australia, such as the 482 visa, 485 visa, or the temporary student visa. See
[Overseas Visitors Health
Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm "Overseas
Visitors Health Cover") for further information.

I am a student from overseas coming to study in Australia; do I need to take
out health cover?

    If you are coming to study in Australia on a temporary student visa it is a condition of your visa to take out appropriate health cover. Students from Sweden, Norway, or Belgium may have special arrangements. See [Overseas Student Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Overseas Student Health Cover") for further information.
What is the Private Health Insurance Rebate?

    Most Australians with private health insurance currently receive a rebate from the Australian Government to help cover the cost of their premiums. The rebate, known as the Australian Government Private Health Insurance Rebate, is aged-based and income tested. The rebate is available for people with Medicare eligibility. If you have a Lifetime Health Cover loading, the rebate does not apply to the LHC loading portion of your premium.

If you are eligible for the rebate, you can have the rebate automatically
deducted off your premiums or claim it back at tax time. See [Private Health
Insurance Rebate](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/insurance_rebate.htm
"Private Health Insurance Rebate") for further information.

Do I have to pay the Medicare Levy Surcharge?

    The Medicare Levy Surcharge (MLS) is levied on payers of Australian tax who do not have private hospital cover and who earn above a certain income threshold.

To be exempt from the surcharge, your hospital cover must be held with a
[registered health insurer](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Funds")Â and
must cover some or all of the fees and charges for a stay in hospital. General
treatment cover without hospital cover will not provide an exemption. See
[Medicare Levy
Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Medicare
Levy Surcharge") for further information and the current thresholds.

How do I find my policy?

    To find your policy and compare it with others: 

  * Find your insurer in the [List of Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "List of health funds")Â and click on its name
  * Search for your policy under the Policies tab
  * Select your product and click 'Compare Policies'

Contact the individual insurers for detailed information about any policy you
are interested in.

Changes to Private Health Insurance

    The Australian Government announced on 13 October 2017 a wide-ranging package of reforms to private health insurance. 

Since 1 April 2019, health insurers can offer [Age-based
Discounts](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/discount_age.htm "Age-based
Discounts") for people aged 18-29 years, increased maximum excess levels, and
travel and accommodation benefits under hospital policies. Some natural
therapies were removed from coverage.

Since 1 April 2020, all hospital policies fall under the tiers of Gold,
Silver, Bronze, and Basic. All policy information is now presented in theÂ
[Private Health Information
Statements](/health_insurance/howitworks/phis_guide.htm "Private Health
Information Statements")Â (PHIS) format. For more information, see: [Product
tiers](/health_insurance/howitworks/producttiers.htm "Product tiers") and
[Clinical categories](/health_insurance/howitworks/clinical_categories.htm
"Clinical categories").

In 2021, private health insurance laws were amended to increase the maximum
age of dependants for private health insurance policies from 24 to 31 years
and remove the age limit for dependants with a disability.

To find out more, see [Private Health Insurance
Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "Private Health Insurance
Changes")Â orÂ [Department of Health and Aged Care - Private Health Insurance
Reforms](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/private-health-
insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms "Link - Department of Health -
Private Health Insurance Reforms").

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

