[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
      * [Overseas Visitors Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm "Visitors to Australia on a temporary visa are generally not eligible for free health care as resident of Australia are, you should consider taking out Overseas Visitors Health Cover to cover any medical costs while you are in Australia.")
      * [Overseas Student Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Students from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst studying in Australia.")
      * [Working visa applicants](/health_insurance/overseas/workingvisa.htm "Applicants for working visas - such as 482 and 485 visas - may be required to hold Overseas Visitors Health Cover.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Working visa applicants

If you are a visitor to Australia and applying for a working visa, you may be
required to hold a form of Overseas Visitors Health Cover.Â This includes
applicants for the visa subclass 482 (Temporary Skill Shortage), visa subclass
485 (Skilled Graduate) visa, and other visas that include a 8501: Health Cover
condition.

  

more

If you are a visitor to Australia, it may be a requirement of your visa that
you need to hold a form of Overseas Visitors Health Cover. This includes
applicants for the visa subclass 482 (Temporary Skill Shortage), visa subclass
485 (Temporary Graduate) visa, and other visas that includeÂ _condition 8501:
Health Cover_.

#### What is adequate health insurance?

If you are applying for a visa and it is a condition for you to hold health
cover, you will need to maintain insurance for the duration of your stay in
Australia. If your family is joining you on this visa, they must also be
insured.

For details of the [Department of Home Affairs - Adequate health insurance for
visa holders](https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-
requirements/health/adequate-health-insurance "Link - Department of Home
Affairs - Adequate health insurance for visa holders").

Australian health insurers offer a range of [Overseas Visitors Health
Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm "Overseas
Visitors Health Cover") policies - make sure you consider only those that are
comprehensive enough to comply with your visa requirements.Â Some
international insurers also offer health policies that meet visa requirements.

If your visa status or Medicare eligibility changes at any time, inform your
insurer as soon as possible to find out whether your level of cover is still
suitable.

#### Exemptions from the health cover requirement

You may be able to apply to Home Affairs for an exemption from the health
insurance visa requirements if you are covered by a [Reciprocal Health Care
Agreement](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/services/medicare/reciprocal-
health-care-agreements "Link - Medicare Reciprocal Health Care Agreements")
and you have enrolled in
[Medicare](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/dhs/medicare "Link -
Department of Human Services - Medicare"), the Australian public health care
system. For more information about the exemption, you should contact the
Department of Home Affairs and your visa processing officer.

Eligibility for these reciprocal arrangements is assessed case by case and you
cannot enrol in Medicare until you have arrived in Australia. This means that
if you are applying for your visa from outside Australia, you will still need
to arrange complying insurance to meet your visa requirements. If you then
successfully enrol in Medicare after your arrival in Australia, you can obtain
an exemption from Home Affairs.

#### Visa subclass 485 (Temporary Graduate) and OSHC

If you hold a valid Student visa at the time you apply for the Subclass 485
visa, you will already be covered under an [Overseas Student Health
Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Overseas
Student Health Cover") policy as a condition of your Student visa requirement.
Your existing OSHC is considered acceptable health insurance at the time you
lodge your 485 visa application and you should submit evidence of this with
your visa application.Â

You will still need to take out a 485-compliant health insurance cover at some
stage during the visa processing period in order for your 485 visa application
to be finalised. The Department of Home Affairs will contact you to request
evidence that you have taken out a policy that complies with 485 requirements
prior to issues your 485 visa.

If your Student visa expires during the 485 visa processing period and you are
issued with a bridging visa, for example, your OSHC policy will also expire.
Prior to the expiry of your Student visa and OSHC policy, you must take out a
new health insurance policy that complies with the minimum level of health
insurance for 485 visa holders. Once your 485 visa application is granted you
must maintain a complying level of health insurance for the full term of your
stay in Australia authorised by this visa.

#### Visa subclass 457 (Temporary Work - Skilled)

Visa subclass 482 (Temporary Skill Shortage) replaces visa subclass 457
(Temporary Work - Skilled), which was [abolished in March
2018](http://www.homeaffairs.gov.au/trav/work/457-abolition-replacement "Link
- Department of Home Affairs - Abolition and replacement of the 457 visa").

##### 457 Visas granted prior to 14 September 2009

If you were granted a 457 visa prior to 14 September 2009, your sponsor
retains ultimate responsibility for the cost of treatment in a public
hospital. If you change sponsors after 14 September 2009, the liability for
certain health costs transfers to your new sponsor.

* * *

#### External Links

  * [Department of Home Affairs: Immigration - Temporary Skill Shortage visa (subclass 482)](https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482 "Department of Home Affairs: Immigration - Temporary Skill Shortage visa \(subclass 482\)")
  * [Department of Home Affairs: Immigration - Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485)](https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485# "Department of Home Affairs: Immigration - Temporary Graduate visa \(subclass 485\)")
  * [Department of Home Affairs: Immigration - Adequate health insurance for visa holders](https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/adequate-health-insurance "Department of Home Affairs: Immigration - Adequate health insurance for visa holders")

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

