[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
      * [Private Health Insurance Rebate](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/insurance_rebate.htm "Describes what the private health insurance rebate is and how to claim it.")
      * [Age-based Discount](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/discount_age.htm "An age-based discount may be available to people between 18 & 29 years-old who take out private health insurance.")
      * [Lifetime Health Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm "Details of the Lifetime Health Cover loading and how it works.")
      * [Medicare Levy Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Details of the Medicare Levy Surcharge.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Lifetime Health Cover

Lifetime Health Cover (LHC) is a Government initiative that started on 1 July
2000. It was designed to encourage people to take out hospital cover earlier
in life and encourage them to maintain it.Â

If you purchase hospital cover earlier in life, and keep it, you will avoid
paying an extra amount called 'LHC loading'.Â The usual deadline to purchase
hospital cover without a loading is the 1 July following your 31st birthday,
though some exceptions may apply if you are a new migrant or you are an
Australian who has been living overseas.

more

Lifetime Health Cover (LHC) is a Government initiative that started on 1 July
2000. It was designed to encourage people to take out hospital cover earlier
in life and encourage them to maintain it.Â

If you purchase hospital cover earlier in life, and keep it, you will avoid
paying an extra amount called 'LHC loading'.

In some cases you may beÂ exempt from LHC loading or fit into aÂ special
circumstances category.Â  

If you are joining or transferring between insurers, or if you fit into one of
the new migrant or special circumstances categories, you will need to
establish your LHC loading by supplying supporting documents.

LHC loadings only apply to hospital cover.Â  
  
_Only private hospital cover with Australian registered private health
insurers is considered to be complying hospital cover for the purpose of
Lifetime Health Cover.Â Â_ _General treatment (extras) cover, Overseas
Visitors Health Cover, Overseas Student Health Cover, and international forms
of insurance are not considered to be hospital cover for Lifetime Health Cover
purposes._

### Who pays LHC loading?

You can avoid paying LHC loading if you take out hospital cover with an
Australian registered health insurer before your Lifetime Health Cover base
day and you maintain your hospital cover.Â

If you do not have hospital cover on yourÂ Lifetime Health Cover base dayÂ and
then decide to take out hospital cover later in life, you will pay a 2%
loading on top of your hospital premium for every year you are aged over 30,
based on your age on the 1 July prior to joining.

The maximum LHC loading that anyone can pay is 70%. Increased premiums due to
LHC loadingÂ stop after 10 years of continuous hospital cover.

You can use theÂ [Lifetime Health Cover
calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Lifetime Health Cover
calculators")Â to find out if you need to pay the LHC loading.

If you are on a couple or family policy, your loading is calculated as an
average between the individual loading of the two adults.Â

For example,Â Noor and Lukas start a new hospital policy for couples. Lukas is
41 years old and has never held hospital cover. His individual LHC loading is
22% (2% per year x 11 years over age 30). Noor has held hospital cover
continuously since she was 28 years old. Her individual LHC loading is 0%. The
LHC loading on their couplesâ cover is 11% (the average of 22% and 0%).

#### When is my LHC base day?

In most cases, your Lifetime Health Cover base day is the later of 1 July
2000Â _or_ Â the 1 July following your 31st birthday.Â Â  

For example, Chloe turned 31 in January 2019, so her Lifetime Health Cover
base day is 1 July 2019. Chloe held hospital cover on her 31st birthday but
decided to cancel the policy in March 2019. In September 2019, Chloe started a
new hospital cover. Chloe pays a 2% loading on top of her normal hospital
premium as she did not have hospital cover on her base date of 1 July 2019.

Some special circumstances may apply if you are aÂ new migrantÂ orÂ an
Australian who has been living overseas.

For example, Shona and Rajeev both turned 40 in April 2019. Their Lifetime
Health Cover base day is 1 July 2010. Rajeev has continuously held hospital
cover since March 2009 and so he does not pay LHC loading. Shona took out
hospital cover for the first time in May 2019. Shona pays 18% LHC loading (2%
per year x 9 years over age 30, as of 1 July 2018) on top of her normal
hospital premium.Â

#### Who is exempt from LHC?

If you were born on or before 1 July 1934, you are exempt from LHC.

### Permitted days without hospital cover

If you have held hospital cover on or after your Lifetime Health Cover (LHC)
base day, then you can access the following 'permitted days without hospital
cover'. During these periods, you do not have an active hospital policy, but
your loading does not increase.

  *  **Gaps in cover and Days of Absence** \- to cover gaps, such as switching from one insurer to another, you can be without hospital cover for a total of 1094 days (i.e. three years less one day) during your lifetime, without affecting your LHC loading. This is known as 'Days of Absence'.  
If youÂ use up your Days of Absence - that is, you have a totalÂ gap periodÂ
of 1095 or more daysÂ -Â you will pay a LHC loading on rejoining hospital
cover. The loading is an additional 2% on top of any previous loading, and
will increase by 2% for every year after the 1094 days without cover.Â  

  * **Suspension of membership** \- if you apply to your health insurer to suspend your hospital cover for a short period (for example, to travel overseas for a holiday), and the insurer agrees, this period of suspension is not counted towards your 1094 Days of Absence. Suspension terms and conditions vary from insurer to insurer, so check with your insurer as to whether you can suspend your policy.
  *  **Going overseas** \- if you cancel your hospital insurance after your Lifetime Health Cover base day to go overseas for at least one continuous year, the days you spend outside of Australia are not counted towards the 1094 Days of Absence. You can return to Australia for periods of up to 90 consecutive days, per visit, and be considered to be overseas. Any periods of 90 days or more which you spend in Australia during this time will be deducted from the 1094 Days of Absence.

It is important to note that you may need to serve [waiting
periods](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "Waiting periods")
again if you have breaks in your hospital cover. These permitted days without
hospital cover only relate to LHC loading. You should check with your health
insurer about the impact on waiting periods if you intend to have gaps in your
hospital cover.

 **Example of gaps in cover**  
Maritâs date of birth is 12 February 1976. She took out hospital cover on 30
August 2008. On that date Marit was 32 years old so she paid 4% LHC loading on
her premium (2% per year x 2 years over age 30). Maritâs priorities changed
and she cancelled her cover on 15 March 2011. Marit rejoined hospital cover on
16 February 2014 (1069 Days of Absence). She paid the same 4% LHC loading on
her premium because she had not exhausted her 1094 days of absence.

 **Example of permitted days without hospital cover while going overseas**  
Weiâs date of birth is 18 April 1971. He took out hospital cover on 29 June
2001 with 0% LHC loading. Wei accepted a work posting in Canada and cancelled
his hospital cover on 8 February 2004. He visited his family in Australia once
a year for 25 days while working overseas. Wei permanently returned to live in
Australia on 15 November 2012 (0 Days of Absence for hospital cover purposes).

Wei rejoined hospital cover on 4 December 2015 (1114 Days of Absence). Wei
paid 2% LHC loading on his hospital cover because he exceeded the allowable
1094 Days of Absence.

### Removal of LHC loading after 10 years

If you have a LHC loading on your hospital premium, it is removed once you
have held LHC loading on your hospital cover for 10 continuous years. Your
loading will then remain at 0% as long as you retain your hospital cover. If
you cancel your cover after the loading is removed, you may become liable to
pay a LHC loading again if you take out another hospital cover.

If you complete 10 years of continuous hospital cover, your LHC loading will
be reduced to 0%.Â

#### Can I have a break in my cover?

You can break up your 10 years of continuous cover with any of the permitted
days without hospital cover. However, the breaks in cover do not count towards
the 10 years.

For example, Kaiaâs date of birth is 7 March 1972. She took out hospital
cover on 17 November 2005 with 6% LHC loading (2% per year x 3 years over age
30). Kaia cancelled her hospital cover to go overseas on 24 January 2015 (3355
days or 9 years, 2 months and 7 days of continuous cover). Kaia did not return
to Australia for more than 90 consecutive days until her permanent return on
24 January 2017.Â  

Kaia rejoined hospital cover on 26 March 2017 and paid her original 6% LHC
loading for another 10 months (297 days). On 17 January 2018 Kaiaâs LHC
loading was removed from her hospital cover premium.

#### What if I use up my Days of Absence?

If you cancel your hospital cover and use up all your permitted days without
hospital cover (i.e. exhaust the full 1094 Days of Absence), then the
continuity of your 10 year period of cover is broken and you will incur a new
LHC loading if you rejoin later.Â

The new LHC loading will be your previous loading back, plus any further
loading that has since accrued (i.e. 2% for each further year beyond the
permitted periods without hospital cover). You will have to start your 10
years of continuous cover from the date of rejoining.Â

### New migrants to Australia  

If you are a new migrant to Australia, then your LHC base day is the later of

  * the 1 July following your 31st birthday; or _Â_
  * the first anniversary of your full Medicare registration.Â   

You have until that day to take out hospital cover without incurring a
Lifetime Health Cover loading.

  

Your 'full Medicare registration' refers to the date you registered for
interim or full Medicare benefits (usually a blue or green Medicare card).
Reciprocal Medicare does not count for LHC purposes.Â

You can confirm your full Medicare registration date by requesting a letter
from Medicare \- [contact Medicare (Services
Australia)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us "Link
- Services Australia - Contact Us")Â or visit your local Medicare branch.

If you miss your Lifetime Health Cover base day, you will have to pay a
loading. The loading is calculated as 2% for each year you are aged over 30
when you take out hospital cover.

An example: Sonja was registered for full Medicare benefits (green Medicare
card) on 20 April 2013. Sonja had her 31st birthday on 8 January 2014.
Sonjaâs Lifetime Health Cover (LHC) base day is 1 July 2014 because this is
the 1 July following her 31st birthday. Sonja purchased private hospital cover
on 2 October 2018. On that date Sonja was 36 years old so she has to pay 12%
LHC loading [(36 years old â 30 year cut-off) x 2%].

#### New migrant and overseas on base day, if your base day is after 30 June
2010

The following applies if you are:Â

  * a new migrant;Â 
  * overseas on your Lifetime Health Cover base day; _and_
  * you registered with Medicare on or after 1 July 2009.Â 

If all these apply to you, then you will not have to pay a Lifetime Health
Cover loading if you purchase hospital cover within 12 months of your first
return to Australia for a period of 90 days or more. The anniversary of your
first return to Australia of 90 days or more becomes your new Lifetime Health
Cover base day.

An example: Deepak registered for full Medicare benefits (green Medicare card)
on 21 August 2009. His date of birth is 12 December 1976. Deepakâs Lifetime
Health Cover (LHC) base day was 21 August 2010 because this is the first
anniversary of his full Medicare registration and he was over 31 years old. He
left Australia on 23 December 2009 to work in France for 6 years. Deepak
visited his brother in Australia twice a year, for a maximum of three weeks
per visit. He permanently returned to live in Australia on 22 December 2015.

Deepak contacted Medicare to request a letter stating his Medicare
Registration date. He requested an International Movement Record from the
Department of Home Affairs. He purchased hospital cover on 2 November 2016.
Deepak supplied the Medicare letter and movement record to his health insurer.
His new LHC base day is 22 December 2016 (the first anniversary of his return
to Australia). Deepak does not need to pay LHC loading because he purchased
hospital cover before his new LHC base day.  

#### LHC for a dependant person with a disability

The normal LHC rules apply to a dependent person with a Disability. Dependents
who hold a hospital cover on their Lifetime Health Cover base day will avoid
paying LHC loading.Â If a dependent person with a disability joins a hospital
cover for the first time after their LHC base day, loading will apply at 2%
for every year they are aged over 30, based on their age on the 1 July prior
to joining.

Where loading applies to at least one adult on a family or single parent
hospital policy, the loading will be averaged between the total number of
adults on the policy.

An example: Lucy turned 31 in January 2019, so her Lifetime Health Cover base
day is 1 July 2019. In November 2021 at the age of 33, Lucy joins her
parentsâ family hospital cover as a dependent with a disability. Lucyâs
individual loading is 6%. Lucy is the only adult on the policy that has
loading applied. As there are 3 adults on the family policy, the loading will
be averaged between the 3 adults. The LHC loading on the family cover is 2%
(the average of 6% and 0% and 0%).

If a dependent has their own single person hospital policy with a loading,
then transfers to a family or single parent policy as a dependent with a
disability, they will carry their loading with them, and the loading will be
averaged between the total number of adults on the policy.

An example: Archie takes out a single hospital cover for himself in February
2018 at the age of 32. His LHC loading is 4%. In December 2021, Archie
transfers to his motherâs single parent hospital cover as a dependent with a
disability. Archieâs individual loading is 4% and his mother has a loading
of 0%. The loading will be averaged between the 2 adults on the policy. The
LHC loading on the single parent cover is 2% (the average of 4% and 0%).
Archie will be eligible to have his loading removed after he has held a
hospital cover for 10 continuous years.

### Special circumstances

#### Overseas on the 1 July following your 31st birthdayÂ

If you areÂ

  * an Australian citizen or permanent resident, andÂ 
  * you were overseas on the 1 July following your 31st birthday, andÂ 
  * your 31st birthday falls after 1 July 2000, and
  * you return to Australia, andÂ 
  * you purchase hospital cover by the first anniversary of the day of your return to Australia,Â 

then you will not pay a Lifetime Health Cover loading.

You can return to Australia for periods of up to 90 consecutive days, per
visit, and are still considered to be overseas. So your 'return' is your first
period of 90 days or more in Australia.

If you purchase hospital cover after the end of the first anniversary of the
date of your return to Australia, LHC loading will be applied based on your
age at the date of joining.

An example: Phuong is an Australian citizen and her date of birth is 5 April
1983. She left Australia on 26 June 2014 (before 1 July following her 31st
birthday) to live in Ecuador for 2 years. Phuong visited her parents in
Australia five times, for no more than 40 days per visit. She permanently
returned to live in Australia on 25 June 2016. Her new LHC base day is 25 June
2017. Phuong purchased hospital cover on 12 October 2018. On that date Phuong
was 35 years old so she has to pay 10% LHC loading (2% per year x 5 years over
age 30).  

#### Over 31 and overseas on 1 July 2000

If on 1 July 2000 you were:Â

  * aged 31 or over; andÂ 
  * an Australian citizen or permanent resident; andÂ 
  * overseas,Â   

then you are considered to have held hospital cover on your base day. This
means you have access to the permitted days without hospital cover.

  

While you are overseas, no LHC loading accumulates. You can visit Australia
for visits of up to 90 days and still be considered to be overseas. When you
are in Australia (i.e. any visits of 90 days or more) you have 1094 Days of
Absence to purchase hospital cover without paying a LHC loading.

The 1094 Days of Absence is a lifetime limit and cannot be renewed; if in
future you have any breaks in your cover while living in Australia, the time
spent without cover will also be deducted from this period. If you use up your
Days of Absence - that is, you have a total gap period of 1095 or more days -
you will pay a 2% LHC loading on rejoining hospital cover. The loading will
increase by 2% for every year after that without cover.

An example: Haruki is a permanent resident of Australia and his date of birth
is 19 March 1964. Haruki moved to Sweden for work on 21 May 2000. He did not
return to Australia for more than 90 consecutive days until his permanent
return on 7 September 2012. He had 1094 Days of Absence (6 September 2015) to
purchase hospital cover to avoid LHC loading. Haruki did not take out hospital
cover until 14 December 2018 and therefore paid 8% LHC loading (2% per year x
4 years after the end of the 1094 Days of Absence).  

#### Australian Defence Forces (ADF)Â

If you are a member of the Australian Defence Forces (ADF) on continuous full-
time service and your medical services are provided by or through the ADF, you
are considered to have hospital cover. The same is true for your adult
dependents if medical services are provided by or through the ADF.

From 1 July 2000 onwards, if you discharge from the ADF after the 1 July
following your 31st birthday, you have 1094 Days of Absence to join a health
insurer and still pay the base rate premium. If you discharge from the ADF
before the 1 July following your 31st birthday, then the normal LHC rules
apply.

An example: Megan served continuously and full-time with the ADF for twelve
years until her discharge on 14 October 2017. Her date of birth is 4 February
1985. She had 1094 Days of Absence (14 October 2020) to purchase hospital
cover to avoid LHC loading. Megan took out hospital cover on 7 March 2019
without paying LHC loading (509 Days of Absence).  

#### Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA)

If you hold a Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA) Gold Card you are
considered to have hospital cover. The cardholder may be a veteran or the
widow/widower and/or dependant of a veteran. You need to be listed on the
card. If you have held a Gold Card at any time since 1 July 1999, and the card
was subsequently withdrawn by the DVA, you may claim the period you held the
card as a period with hospital cover. Anyone holding a 'white' or 'orange'
card is not considered to have hospital cover. More information regarding the
DVA card entitlements can be found at the [DVA
website](https://www.dva.gov.au/providers/what-you-need-know/what-dva-health-
card-covers "Link - Department of Veteran Affairs - DVA health cards").

An example: Patrick held a DVA Gold Card until it was withdrawn by the DVA on
9 June 2017. He had 1094 Days of Absence (8 June 2020) to purchase hospital
cover to avoid LHC loading. Patrick took out hospital cover on 25 May 2019
without paying LHC loading (715 Days of Absence).Â  

#### Norfolk Island

Prior to 1 July 2016, time spent on Norfolk Island was classified as time
spent overseas and this can have different effects depending on the actual
dates you were resident on Norfolk Island. From 1 July 2016, this no longer
applied and time spent on Norfolk Island is considered to be equivalent to
time spent in Australia.

Norfolk Island residents who were aged over 31 at 1 July 2016 had until 30
June 2017 to purchase hospital cover without incurring a Lifetime Health Cover
loading. If those residents did not take out hospital cover before 1 July
2017, the LHC loading is based on the age of the resident at their time of
joining. Younger residents will have until their normal LHC base day or the 1
July following their 31st birthday to purchase hospital cover without
incurring a LHC loading.

From 1 July 2016, residents of Norfolk Island became eligible for Medicare
benefits and are therefore also able to purchase Australian private health
insurance policies.Â Residents of Norfolk Island can purchase the same
policies as residents of NSW.

An example: Jennifer is a resident of Norfolk Island and her date of birth is
23 May 1975. She had until 30 June 2017 to take out hospital cover to avoid
LHC loading. Jennifer did not purchase hospital cover until 28 July 2019 and
therefore needs to pay 28% LHC loading (2% per year x 14 years over age 30).  

### Establishing your LHC loading

If you are transferring between private health insurers or joining as a new
member, in some circumstances you may need to supply supporting documents to
your new health insurer to have the correct loading applied. Depending on your
circumstances, you may need to obtain one or more of the following:

#### Clearance CertificateÂ

If you are transferring between private health insurers or rejoining hospital
cover after a period of absence, you should obtain a Clearance Certificate
from your previous health insurer and provide this to your new health insurer
on or after joining. This will establish your previous LHC loading, if any;
and if transferring between insurers, will also provide information about
waiting periods you have already completed. You can find [contact details for
all registered health insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "List of health
insurers") on this website.

#### Medicare registration date letterÂ

If you are a new migrant to Australia aged over 31, then you normally have 12
months from the date of your Medicare registration for interim or full
Medicare benefits (usually a blue or green Medicare card) to purchase hospital
cover without a LHC loading.

If you join hospital cover within 12 months of Medicare registration, you will
need to confirm the applicable date by requesting a letter from Medicare -
[contact Medicare (Services
Australia)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us "Link
- Services Australia - Contact Us") or visit your local Medicare branch.
Supply the letter to your insurer on or after joining to have your LHC loading
reassessed.  

If you registered with Medicare on or after 1 July 2009 and you were overseas
on the anniversary of your Medicare registration, then you should also obtain
an International Movement Record - see below.

#### International Movement RecordÂ

You may need this document if you fit under one of the following cases and the
corresponding timeframe:

Your case| Your timeframe  
---|---  
You were an Australian permanent resident or citizen on the 1 July following
your 31st birthday, the date fell after 1 July 2000, and you were overseas on
that day.| You purchase hospital cover within 1 year of your return to
Australia. Your 'return' is the first time you returned for 90 days or more.  
You were an Australian permanent resident or citizen, who was aged over 31,
and overseas on 1 July 2000.| You purchase hospital cover at any time after
your return.  
You were a new migrant when you registered with Medicare on or afterÂ on or
after 1 July 2009, you were aged over 31, and you were overseas on the
anniversary of your Medicare registration date| You purchase hospital cover
within a year of your return.  
  
 _You should also obtain a Medicare Registration date letter._  
You cancelled your hospital cover after the age of 31 and after 1 July 2000.
YouÂ then went overseas for a period of at least 12 months.| You purchase
hospital cover at any time after your return to Australia. Your 'return' is
the first time you returned for 90 days or more.  
  
 _You should also obtain a Clearance Certificate._  
  
If you fall into one of these categories and you meet the timeframe, then to
confirm your entry and exit dates from Australia you can request an
International Movement Record from the [](http://www.homeaffairs.gov.au/ "Link
- Department of Home Affairs")[](http://www.homeaffairs.gov.au/ "Link -
Department of Home Affairs")[Department of Home
Affairs](http://www.homeaffairs.gov.au/ "Link - Department of Home Affairs").
The [Request for international movement
records](https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-
forms/online-forms/request-international-movement-records "Link - Department
of Home Affairs - Request for international movement records") application
formÂ is available on their website. When you have received the record from
Home Affairs, supply it to your health insurer on or after joining to have
your LHC loading reassessed.Â

* * *

#### Tools

  * [Lifetime Health Cover Calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Use the Lifetime Health Cover calculators to calculate if, and how much of a loading you may have to pay on your private health insurance premiums")

#### Brochures

  * [Factsheet: Clearance Certificates](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications-and-news-pages/publication-pages/brochures-and-factsheets/factsheets/private-health-insurance/clearance-certificates "The Ombudsman's factsheet on clearance certificates")

#### External Links

  * [Department of Health and Aged Care - LHC Frequently Asked Questions](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-privatehealth-lhc-providers-general.htm "The Department of Health website provides answers for frequently asked questions when it comes to lifetime health cover")

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

