[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
      * [Overseas Visitors Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm "Visitors to Australia on a temporary visa are generally not eligible for free health care as resident of Australia are, you should consider taking out Overseas Visitors Health Cover to cover any medical costs while you are in Australia.")
      * [Overseas Student Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Students from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst studying in Australia.")
      * [Working visa applicants](/health_insurance/overseas/workingvisa.htm "Applicants for working visas - such as 482 and 485 visas - may be required to hold Overseas Visitors Health Cover.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Overseas Visitors Health Cover

If you are visiting from overseas, you generally are not covered under
Australia's public Medicare system for medical or hospital expenses.Â This
means that if you need medical attention while you are visiting Australia you
could find yourself responsible for significant costs.

You should consider taking Overseas Visitors Health Cover (OVHC) to insure
against potential expenses. In some cases, it may be a condition of your visa
to hold a form of OVHC.

more

Overseas Visitors Health Cover (OVHC) is a form of health insurance which is
designed for visitors to Australia who do not have access to [Australia's
public Medicare system](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "What
is covered by Medicare?") for medical or hospital expenses. OVHC insures
against potential expenses you may incur if you require medical or hospital
treatment.Â

In some cases, it may be a condition of your visa to hold a form of OVHC - for
example, if you areÂ [working visa 482 or 485
applicant](/health_insurance/overseas/workingvisa.htm "Working visa
applicants")Â or an [overseas
student](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm
"Overseas Student Health Cover").

### What does OVHC Cover?

Every OVHC policy will differ in costs, eligibility and benefits. However,
most policies should cover you for medically-required hospital admissions and
a portion of doctor's fees.

In addition to cover for hospital and medical expenses, you can also purchase
General Treatment cover. General Treatment cover pays benefits towards the
services of health care providers in private practice such as dentists,
optometrists and physiotherapists. Insurance can cover part of these costs,
though you would still need to cover part of the fees yourself.

 _Lifetime Health Cover and the private health insurance rebate do not apply
to overseas visitors' health cover. Goods and Services Tax (GST) is applied to
the cost of overseas visitors' health cover purchases._

### What may not be covered?

Take care when you are purchasing cover as some plans will have lower benefits
or no benefits for certain types of treatment, and waiting periods can vary -
some policies mayÂ **permanently exclude** Â cover for pre-existing illnesses,
meaning that such illnesses can never be covered. See theÂ [Tips on health
insurance for visitors](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Overseas
Visitors & Overseas Students")Â for further information about what you should
look for when purchasing cover.

Most overseas visitors' health cover products have limited cover for
pharmaceuticals. Overseas visitors may face significant out-of-pocket costs if
they need treatment with pharmaceuticals, particularly cancer treatment.

Travellers entering Australia may bring in medicines and medical devices for
immediate use and to import small quantities for personal use. For more
information see the Therapeutic Goods Administration website - [Entering
Australia](https://www.tga.gov.au/entering-australia "Link - Therapeutic Goods
Administration - Entering Australia") and [Personal Importation
Scheme](https://www.tga.gov.au/personal-importation-scheme "Link - Therapeutic
Goods Administration - Personal Importation Scheme").

### Where can I purchase OVHC?

You can purchase cover for visitors to Australia from some health insurers and
some general insurers based in Australia. You can also opt to be covered by
insurance policies issued in other countries. Remember, if you are on a visa
with specific health insurance conditions, you need to purchase the type and
level of health insurance specified by your visa.

The internet is a good way to locate insurance cover for visitors. We suggest
you search for "Overseas Visitors Insurance" or "Overseas Visitors Health
Cover" in a search engine and compare policies from at least three providers.

You may also want to consider purchasing travel insurance, especially if you
are in Australia for a short stay. Travel insurance may cover you for items
that are not covered on visitors' cover such as loss of travel goods and
repatriation in a medical emergency. Travel insurance should be purchased in
your country of origin, before you depart for overseas.

### Medicare: Australia's public health system

Unlike Australian citizens who can use the public health systemÂ
[Medicare](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "What is covered by
Medicare?")Â to cover their medical and hospital expenses, overseas visitors
who hold temporary visas are not generally eligible to use Medicare.

This means that if you need medical attention while you are visiting Australia
you could find yourself substantially out of pocket. Even in a public hospital
you could be chargedÂ more thanÂ $1,000 a day in hospital fees alone. Without
health cover you can find yourself responsible for the full cost of treatment.

If you are unsure of your Medicare eligibility status, you should check with
your local Medicare office or contact the [Medicare (Services
Australia)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us "Link
- Services Australia - Contact Us").

If your visa status or Medicare eligibility changes at any time, inform your
insurer as soon as possible to find out whether your level of cover is still
suitable.

#### Reciprocal Medicare

If you are an overseas visitors from the United Kingdom, Sweden, Belgium,Â
Finland, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Slovenia, the Republic of Ireland,
Norway and New Zealand, you generally have access to Medicare under your
country'sÂ [reciprocal health care
agreement](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/reciprocal-
health-care-agreements/when-you-visit-australia "Link - Medicare Healthcare
for visitors to Australia")Â with Australia. This means you can receive
emergency treatment in the public health system free of charge, which you
would not otherwise be entitled to.

However, reciprocal Medicare benefits do not cover you for treatment as a
private patient in hospital, and depending on your country, other limits may
apply (for example, in some cases the benefits expire after you have been in
Australia for a certain period of time). Check the conditions of your
country's reciprocal Medicare agreement to confirm what benefits and limits
apply to you.Â

You should consider taking OVHC if you want to be covered for items that are
not covered under the agreements.

#### How the Medicare Levy Surcharge might affect the type of health insurance
you need

If you are:

  * earning over the Medicare Levy Surcharge income threshold;
  * considered resident in Australia for tax purposes; and
  * have successfully enrolled in Medicare (for any level of benefits - reciprocal, interim, or full);

then you may be affected by the Medicare Levy Surcharge. For further
information about the Surcharge and the type of health insurance policy that
exempts you from the Surcharge, please refer to theÂ [Medicare Levy
Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Medicare
Levy Surcharge").

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

