[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
      * [Medicare](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "Describes what is and what is not covered by medicare for hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits.")
      * [Private health insurance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/privatehealth.htm "Describes what is covered by private health insurance for ambulance, hospital and general treatment \(also known as ancillary or extras\) cover. Also covers what may not be covered owing to exclusions, restrictions or benefit limitation periods on your policy.")
      * [Ambulance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/ambulance.htm "Depending on which state you live you may need to organise ambulance cover to cover the costs of using an ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Overview of Health System

[Medicare](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "What is covered by
Medicare?") is a universal health care system that delivers affordable,
accessible and high-quality health care for most Australian residents. You can
also choose to take out [private health
insurance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/privatehealth.htm "What is
covered by private health insurance?")Â to give you more health care options
and to cover items which are not covered by Medicare.

You can get a Medicare card if you live in Australia or Norfolk Island and
[meet certain
criteria](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-
card/eligibility/who-can-get-it "Link - Medicare card - who can get it"). You
may also be eligible for a Medicare card if you visit from certain countries.Â

more

[Medicare](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "What is covered by
Medicare?") is a universal health care system that delivers affordable,
accessible and high-quality health care for most Australian residents. You can
also choose to take out [private health
insurance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/privatehealth.htm "What is
covered by private health insurance?")Â to give you more health care options
and to cover items which are not covered by Medicare.

You can get a Medicare card if you live in Australia or Norfolk Island and
[meet certain
criteria](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-
card/eligibility/who-can-get-it "Link - Medicare card - who can get it").Â

You may be eligible for a Medicare card if you visit from certain countries.
You should note that some limits may apply. If you are visiting from overseas
and are a [reciprocal Medicare card
holder](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/services/medicare/reciprocal-
health-care-agreements "Link - Medicare Reciprocal Health Care Agreements"),
see [Overseas visitors & overseas students health
cover](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Overseas visitors & overseas
students health cover").

Below is a summary of what is covered by private health insurance and Medicare
for hospital, medical services and general treatment, pharmaceutical benefits
and ambulance.

#### Hospital

Private Cover| Medicare  
---|---  
  
Provided your policy covers the service that is being treated in hospital:Â

You can choose to be treated as a private patient in either a public or a
private hospital.

You can choose your own doctor. On most policies you can decide whether you
will go to a public hospital, or a private hospital which has an agreement
with your insurer. You may also have more choice as to when you are admitted
to hospital.Â

If you are a private patient in a public hospital, public hospital waiting
lists still apply.

If you choose to be treated as a private patient in a hospital (public or
private), Medicare will cover you for 75% of the Medicare Benefits Schedule
(MBS) fee for associated medical costs.

|

You can be treated as a public patient in a public hospital by a doctor
appointed by the hospital.

You cannot choose your own doctor and you may not have a choice about when you
are admitted to hospital.

You can choose to be treated as a public patient even if you are privately
insured.  
  
The remaining hospital and medical costs will be charged to you - some or all
of these costs may be covered by your private health insurance, depending on
your policy.

The remaining costs includeÂ 25% of the MBS fee for doctors' services and any
amount the doctors charge above the MBS fee, plus some or all the costs of:

  * hospital accommodation;
  * theatre fees;
  * intensive care;Â 
  * drugs, dressings and other consumables;
  * prostheses (surgically implanted);
  * diagnostic tests;
  * pharmaceuticals; and 
  * any additional doctor's fees.

|

As a public patient you will be treated at no charge.

Medicare does not cover:

  * private patient hospital costs (for example, theatre fees or accommodation); 
  * medical and hospital costs incurred overseas;Â 
  * medical and hospital services which are not clinically necessary, or surgery solely for cosmetic reasons;
  * examinations for life insurance, superannuation or memberships for which someone else is responsible (for example, a compensation insurer, employer, or government authority); and
  * emergency department administration or facility fees.

  
  
For **further information** please see:

  * [What is covered by Medicare?](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "What is covered by Medicare?")
  * [What is covered by private health insurance?](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/privatehealth.htm "What is covered by private health insurance?")

  
  
#### Medical Services and General Treatment

Private Cover| Medicare  
---|---  
If you visit a doctor outside a hospital, Medicare will reimburse 100% of the
MBS fee for a general practitioner and 85% of the MBS fee for a specialist -
this applies whether or not you hold private health insurance. If your doctor
bills Medicare directly (bulk billing), you will not have to pay anything.  
  
Medicare does not provide benefits for the following:

  * most dental examinations and treatment;
  * most physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, eye therapy, chiropractic services, podiatry or psychology services;
  * acupuncture (unless part of a doctor's consultation);
  * glasses and contact lenses;
  * hearing aids and other appliances; andÂ 
  * home nursing.

You can arrange private health insurance to cover many of these services.Â
Most insurers will have limits on how much you can claim per service and per
year.

|

Medicare provides benefits for:

  * consultation fees for doctors, including specialists;
  * tests and examinations by doctors needed to treat illnesses, such as x-rays and pathology tests;
  * eye tests performed by optometrists;
  * most surgical and other therapeutic procedures performed by doctors in public hospitals;
  * some surgical procedures performed by approved dentists;
  * specific items under the Cleft Lip and Palate Scheme;
  * specific items under the Enhanced Primary Care (EPC) program; and
  * specific items for allied health services as part of the Chronic Disease Management Plan.

  
  
For **further information** please see:

  * [What is covered by Medicare?](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "What is covered by Medicare?")
  * [What is covered by private health insurance?](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/privatehealth.htm "What is covered by private health insurance?")

  
  
#### Pharmaceutical

Private Cover| Medicare  
---|---  
  
Under the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](http://www.pbs.gov.au/ "Link -
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme") (PBS), you pay only part of the cost of most
prescription medicines purchased at pharmacies in Australia. The rest of the
cost is covered by the PBS. You must present your Medicare card to obtain this
benefit.

The amount you pay varies with the medicine, up to a standard maximum. People
with Government-issued concession cards have a lower maximum payment.  
  
You can arrange private health insurance to cover many prescription medicines
which aren't listed on the PBS. Most insurers will require you to make a co-
payment towards the cost and will have limits on how much you can claim.| Some
prescription medicines are not listed on the PBS. You pay the full amount for
these non-PBS items.  
  
#### Ambulance

Private Cover| Medicare  
---|---  
  
In Queensland and Tasmania, emergency ambulance services are provided to
residents for free by the State Government.Â

New South Wales and Australian Capital Territory provide free emergency
ambulance services for Pensioners and Concession Card Holders.

In the Northern Territory, NT Centrelink Pensioner Concession Card or Health
Care Card holders are exempt from ambulance fees.

Victorian Pension Concession/Healthcare Card holders are also covered for
clinically necessary ambulance transport but Commonwealth Seniors Health Card
holders are not covered.  
  
If you do not fall into any of the above categories above you can arrange
ambulance cover from the ambulance authority in your state or territory, or
from a health insurer.| Medicare does not cover the cost of emergency or other
ambulance services.  
  
For **further information** please see:

  * [Ambulance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/ambulance.htm "Ambulance")

  
  
* * *

#### Brochures

  * [Private Patients Hospital Charter - What you can expect from your insurer](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/private-patients-hospital-charter "Private Patients Hospital Charter - What you can expect from your insurer")

#### External Links

  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](http://www.pbs.gov.au/ "www.pbs.gov.au")
  * [Medicare Australia](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/dhs/medicare "Department of Human Services - Medicare")
  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/ "www.health.gov.au")
  * [Medicare card - who can get it](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-card/eligibility/who-can-get-it "Medicare card - who can get it")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](https://www.health.gov.au/medical-costs-finder "The Department of Health provides the Medical Costs Finder to help you find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

