[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
      * [Medicare](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "Describes what is and what is not covered by medicare for hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits.")
      * [Private health insurance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/privatehealth.htm "Describes what is covered by private health insurance for ambulance, hospital and general treatment \(also known as ancillary or extras\) cover. Also covers what may not be covered owing to exclusions, restrictions or benefit limitation periods on your policy.")
      * [Ambulance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/ambulance.htm "Depending on which state you live you may need to organise ambulance cover to cover the costs of using an ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Ambulance

You can organise ambulance cover to insure against the costs of using an
ambulance by purchasing ambulance cover from a private health insurer or from
your state ambulance service. Depending on your state of residence, you may be
eligible for a discount or may not need cover at all. Medicare does not cover
the cost of emergency transport or other ambulance services.

more

[Medicare](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "What is covered by
Medicare?") does not cover the cost of emergency transport or other ambulance
services. You can organise ambulance cover, through aÂ [health
insurer](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Funds")Â or in some states and
territories, from the state ambulance authority. Health insurers may pay for
or reimburse you for all or part of your annual subscription to your state or
territory ambulance authority or the costs associated with transportation.

Depending on your state or territory of residence, you may be eligible for a
discount or may not need cover at all. Note that the information below applies
while in your state of residence and may not apply if you are interstate.

State| Ambulance Cover arrangements in your state of residence  
  
---|---  
All states and territories| Department of Veterans Affairs Health Card holders
are covered for state ambulance services in every state and territory. [This
website](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/local-or-overseas-
medical-care/ambulance-transport "Link - Department of Veterans Affairs -
Ambulance factsheet") gives details about conditions and restrictions.  
Australian Capital Territory (ACT)| ACT residents who are Pensioner,
Concession or Health Care card holders are entitled to free emergency
ambulance services. If you are not eligible for a concession and want to be
covered, you can purchase cover from a private health insurer.  
New South Wales (NSW)| NSW residents who are Health Care Card, Pensioner
Concession Card, or Commonwealth Seniors Health Care Card holders can use some
ambulance services free of charge. If you are not eligible for a concession
and want to be covered, you can purchase cover from a private health insurer.  
Northern Territory (NT)| NT residents who are Centrelink Pensioner Concession
Card or Health Care Card holders are entitled to free ambulance transport
services. If you are not eligible for a concession and want to be covered, you
can purchase cover from a private health insurer or a subscription through the
territory ambulance service.  
Queensland (QLD)| Emergency pre-hospital ambulance treatment and transport
costs for Queensland residents are covered by the state government.  
  
South Australia (SA)| SA residents who want ambulance cover can purchase cover
from a private health insurer or a subscription through the state ambulance
service.  
  
Tasmania (TAS)| Ambulance costs for Tasmanian residents are covered by the
state government.  
Victoria (VIC)|

Victorian Pensioner Concession Card or Health Care Card holders are entitled
to free, clinically necessary ambulance transport services.

However, if you are a concession card holder and you are transported from a
private healthcare facility, the sending private facility is responsible for
payment. This includes registered private hospitals and registered private day
procedure centres. The private healthcare facility decides whether or not to
pass this cost onto you.

If you are not eligible for a concession and want to be covered, you can
purchase cover from a private health insurer or a subscription from the state
ambulance service.Â  
  
  
Western Australia (WA)| WA residents who are over 65 years and receive an
Australian Government pension are entitled to free medically necessary,
emergency and urgent ambulance services. If you are not eligible for a
concession and want to be covered, you can purchase cover from a private
health insurer or a subscription from the state ambulance service.  
  
If you are travelling interstate, check with your state ambulance service,
concession card provider or health insurer about how you are covered for
ambulance services while travelling.

#### What may not be covered?

Ambulance cover can vary. Some insurers provide cover for all ambulance
travel, while others only provide for ground travel or have other limitations
- for example, they may cover youÂ in your state of residence only, or they
may not cover 'call out' fees (when an ambulance treats you at the scene but
does not transport you to hospital).

Check with your insurer about which type of ambulance cover best suits your
needs.

Contact your state or territory government for more information on the
arrangements that apply in your state.

#### Questions to ask about your ambulance cover

Some questions you can ask before joining include:

  * Will this policy cover me when I'm travelling interstate? 
  * Does this policy cover emergency situations only, or will it cover non-emergency as well? How does the insurer define an emergency? 
  * Will this policy cover me for the ambulanceÂ 'call-out' fee if I need ambulance treatment but do not require transportation? 
  * What is the waiting period? 
  * Will I need to make any co-payments towards the ambulance fee?
  * What types of ambulance transport will this cover - for example, will it cover air ambulance? Will it cover transports provided by Â state-approved private providers or other private providers?

* * *

#### State Ambulance Service Websites

  * [Australian Capital Territory](http://esa.act.gov.au/actas/ "Australian Capital Territory")
  * [New South Wales](http://www.ambulance.nsw.gov.au/ "New South Wales")
  * [Northern Territory](http://www.stjohnnt.org.au/ "Northern Territory")
  * [Queensland](http://www.ambulance.qld.gov.au/ "Queensland")
  * [South Australia](http://www.saambulance.com.au/ "South Australia")
  * [Tasmania](http://www.dhhs.tas.gov.au/ambulance "Tasmania")
  * [Victoria](http://www.ambulance.vic.gov.au/ "Victoria")
  * [Western Australia](https://stjohnwa.com.au/ambulance-and-health-services "Western Australia")

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

