[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
      * [Medicare](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "Describes what is and what is not covered by medicare for hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits.")
      * [Private health insurance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/privatehealth.htm "Describes what is covered by private health insurance for ambulance, hospital and general treatment \(also known as ancillary or extras\) cover. Also covers what may not be covered owing to exclusions, restrictions or benefit limitation periods on your policy.")
      * [Ambulance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/ambulance.htm "Depending on which state you live you may need to organise ambulance cover to cover the costs of using an ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## What is covered by Medicare?

Medicare is the basis of Australia's health care system and covers many health
care costs. Most Australian residents are eligible for Medicare. Under
Medicare you can be treated as a public patient in a public hospital, at no
charge. Medicare will also cover some or all the costs of seeing a GP or
specialist outside of hospital, and some pharmaceuticals.

Medicare does not cover private patient hospital costs, ambulance services,
and other out of hospital services such as dental, physiotherapy, glasses and
contact lenses, hearings aids. Many of these items can be covered on private
health insurance.

more

Medicare is the basis of Australia's health care system and covers many health
care costs. Most Australian residents are eligible for Medicare.

You can get a Medicare card if you live in Australia or Norfolk Island and
meet [meet certain
criteria](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-
card/eligibility/who-can-get-it "Link - Medicare card - who can get it"). You
may also get a reciprocal Medicare card if [you visit from certain
countries](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/reciprocal-
health-care-agreements/when-you-visit-australia "Link - Medicare Healthcare
for visitors to Australia").Â

You can choose whether to have Medicare cover only, or a combination of
Medicare and private health insurance.Â

The Medicare system has three parts: hospital, medical and pharmaceutical.

### Hospital

Under Medicare you can be treated as a public patient in a public hospital, at
no charge, by a doctor appointed by the hospital. You can choose to be treated
as a public patient, even if you are privately insured.

As a public patient, you cannot choose your own doctor and you may not have a
choice about when you are admitted to hospital because you may be placed on a
public hospital waiting list.

#### Medicare does not cover:

  * private patient hospital costs (for example, theatre fees or accommodation) - you can purchase private hospital insurance to cover this item; 
  * medical and hospital costs incurred overseas;
  * medical and hospital services which are not clinically necessary, or surgery solely for cosmetic reasons;Â 
  * ambulance services; andÂ 
  * emergency department administration or facility fees.  

### Medical

When you visit a doctor outside a hospital, Medicare will reimburse 100% of
the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) fee for a general practitioner and 85% of
the MBS fee for service provided by a specialist. If your doctor bills
Medicare directly (bulk billing), you will not have to pay anything.

Medicare provides benefits for:

  * consultation fees for doctors, including specialists;
  * tests and examinations by doctors needed to treat illnesses, such as x-rays and pathology tests; 
  * eye tests performed by optometrists; 
  * most surgical and other therapeutic procedures performed by doctors;
  * some surgical procedures performed by approved dentists; 
  * specific items under the Cleft Lip and Palate Scheme; 
  * specific items under the Enhanced Primary Care (EPC) program; andÂ   

  * specific items for allied health services as part of the Chronic Disease Management Plan.

#### Medicare does not cover:

  * examinations for life insurance, superannuation or memberships for which someone else is responsible (for example, a compensation insurer, employer or government authority);
  * ambulance services;
  * most dental examinations and treatment;
  * most physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, eye therapy, chiropractic services, podiatry orÂ psychology services;
  * acupuncture (unless part of a doctor's consultation);
  * glasses and contact lenses;
  * hearing aids and other appliances; andÂ 
  * home nursing.  

Many of these items can be covered on private health insurance general
treatment (extras) policies.Â Most insurers will have limits on how much you
can claim per service and per year.

### Pharmaceutical

Under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) you pay only part of the cost
of most prescription medicines purchased at pharmacies. The rest of the cost
is covered by the PBS. You must present your Medicare card to obtain this
benefit.

The amount you pay varies, and is dependent on the type of medicine, up to a
standard maximum. People with Government-issued concession cards have a lower
maximum payment.

* * *

#### External Links

  * [Medicare Australia](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/dhs/medicare "Medicare Australia")
  * [What Medicare covers](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/subjects/medicare-services "The Department of Human Services website provides information about what Medicare covers.")
  * [Medicare Eligibility Information](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/enablers/medicare/medicare-card/eligibility-for-medicare-card "The Department of Human Services website provides information about eligibility for Medicare benefits")
  * [Medicare for visitors to Australia](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/reciprocal-health-care-agreements/when-you-visit-australia "Medicare for visitors to Australia")
  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/ "The Medicare Benefits Schedule website \(MBS Online\) contains a listing of the Medicare services subsidised by the Australian Government")
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](http://www.pbs.gov.au/ "The Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme \(PBS\) website provides the details of all the drugs listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme")
  * [Cleft Lip and Cleft Palate Scheme](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/services/medicare/cleft-lip-and-cleft-palate-scheme "The Department of Human Services website provides detailed information about the Cleft Lip and Cleft Palate Scheme")

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

