[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Private Health Insurance Changes

In 2019 and in 2021, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help
make private health insurance simpler, and make it easier for people to choose
the cover that best suits them.

more

The Australian Government has introduced reforms to make private health
insurance simpler and help people to choose the cover that best suits them.

## First wave of reforms

#### Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital cover

Four new tiers of hospital cover began rolling out from early 2019 and became
mandatory from 1 April 2020. All hospital insurance policies are now
classified as Gold, Silver, Bronze or Basic.

What is, and is not, covered in these hospital tiers are based on new minimum
standard clinical categories of treatment. These clinical categories are
simply groups of what hospital treatments are, and are not, covered under each
policy. Each clinical categoryâfor example, âbone, joint and muscleâ
category, or âheart and vascular systemâ categoryâsets out the hospital
treatments that must be covered by your private health insurer. If a policy
covers a certain category, then it must cover everything listed in itânot
only some things.

Insurers can offer additional coverage above the minimum requirements in Basic
Plus (+), Bronze Plus (+) and Silver Plus (+) tiers.

See [Product tiers](/health_insurance/howitworks/producttiers.htm "Product
tiers") and [Clinical
categories](/health_insurance/howitworks/clinical_categories.htm "Clinical
categories") for more information.

### Private Health Information Statement (PHIS)

Your insurer is required to send you a statement summarising what your policy
covers and does not cover at least once a year, and again each time your
policy changes.

Since 2019, policy information for new Gold, Silver, Bronze or Basic hospital
tiers and general treatment policies is sent to you in the form of a Private
Health Information Statement (PHIS).Â The PHIS provides information about what
is, and is not, covered based on the new tiers and clinical categories of
treatment. All available policies are summarised in the PHIS documents.

You can search for and compare a standard PHIS from every insurer in Australia
on this website. Insurers can also offer a customised PHIS for their members
and in their emails, letters and websites, which may include further
information.

See [Private Health Information
Statements](/health_insurance/howitworks/phis_guide.htm "Private Health
Information Statements") for more information.

### Mental health treatment waiting periods

Since 1 April 2018, health insurers have been providing greater access to
mental health services by allowing people to upgrade their hospital cover
without serving the usual two month waiting period for in-hospital psychiatric
treatment. Policyholders are able to use this exemption from the usual waiting
period on a once-off basis.

See [Waiting periods](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm
"Waiting periods") for more information.

### Natural therapies

Since 1 April 2019 private health insurers have no longer been able to offer
benefits for some natural therapies as part of a health insurance policy.

The affected natural therapies are Alexander technique, aromatherapy, Bowen
therapy, Buteyko, Feldenkrais, western herbalism, homeopathy, iridology,
kinesiology, naturopathy, Pilates, reflexology, Rolfing, shiatsu, tai chi, and
yoga.

### Discontinued policies

If an insurer plans to discontinue your policy and move you to a new policy,
they must provide you with clear and transparent information about how this
change will affect you.

This information will better enable you to decide whether to transfer to the
alternative product chosen by your insurer, or to purchase a different
product, or transfer to a different insurer.

### Ability to change excess levels

Previously, hospital policy excesses were set at a maximum of $500 for singles
or $1,000 for couples and families in order to avoid the Medicare Levy
Surcharge.

The maximum excesses are now $750 for singles and $1,500 for couples and
family policies.

See [Medicare Levy
Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Medicare
Levy Surcharge") for more information.

### Discounts for 18 to 29 year olds

Since 1 April 2019, insurers have had the option to offer people aged 18â29
years discounts of up to 10 per cent of their private health insurance
hospital premiums. People will retain that discount until they turn 41, when
it will be gradually phased out.

The allowable discount is 2 per cent for each year that a person is aged under
30, to a maximum of 10 per cent for 18 to 25 year olds.

If a policy offers age-based discounts they will be available to both new and
existing policy holders.

See [Age-based
Discount](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/discount_age.htm "Age-based
Discount") for more information.

### Travel and accommodation benefits for rural consumers

People living in regional and rural areas sometimes need to travel away from
home for specialist medical and hospital treatment.

Insurers have the option to offer travel and accommodation benefits as part of
hospital cover. Some insurers already offer these benefits to their members
under general treatment or extras cover.

Talk to your insurer to find out more.

  

## Second wave of reforms

### Increasing the age of dependents

The Governmentâs proposal to increase the maximum age of dependants for
private health insurance policies from 24 to 31 years and remove the age limit
for dependants with a disability was passed by Parliament in June 2021.

The legislation defines a dependent as a single person aged from 18 to 31
years. However an insurer can choose to define and implement their own age
range for dependents. For example, an insurer that currently has a maximum age
for dependent as 24 years in their insurer rules, may increase the maximum age
to 29 years rather than 31 years.

The legislation defines a person with a disability as a participant in the
National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) who is aged 18 years or over. They
may have a partner. However, insurers will have some discretion to offer cover
to people with a disability who are not participating in the NDIS.Â

As it is optional for insurers to implement these policy changes, your insurer
will tell you if, and how, they will apply this change.Â Consumers can search
this website for the new policies.

For more information, see the [Department of Health
website](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/private-health-
insurance-age-of-dependants-measure-questions-and-answers "Link - Department
of Health - Private Health Insurance age of dependants measure â questions
and answers").

### Transparency of out of pocket costs

The Australian Government [Medical Costs
Finder](https://www.health.gov.au/medical-costs-finder "Link - Medical Costs
Finder")Â is an online tool that helps you find out more about the costs of
specialist medical services.Â It covers common services in and out of hospital
that patients want to know more about. The tool's results are based on the
most recent publicly available Government data about what people have paid for
medical services.Â

  

As part of the reforms, the Medical Costs Finder will be further enhanced to
improve the transparency of out-of-pocket costs and provide patients with a
better understanding of the value of private health insurance.Â

  

For more information, visit the [Department of Health and Aged Care
website](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/budget-2020-21-private-
health-insurance-transparency-of-out-of-pocket-costs "Link - Department of
Health - Budget 2020-21: Private Health Insurance â transparency of out-of-
pocket costs").Â

### Expanding home and community-based mental health and rehabilitation care

As part of the second wave of reforms, the Government has announced an
expansion of access to home and community-based mental health and
rehabilitation services under private health insurance. This measure will also
expand options for insurers to fund non-MBS mental health care services under
general treatment and hospital treatment policies.Â

* * *

#### External links

  * [Department of Health and Aged Care - Private Health Insurance Reforms](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms "Department of Health and Aged Care - Private Health Insurance Reforms")

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

