[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
      * [Product tiers](/health_insurance/howitworks/producttiers.htm "Four new tiers of hospital cover will begin rolling out from early 2019 and will become mandatory from 1 April 2020. All hospital insurance policies will be classified as Gold, Silver, Bronze or Basic. All hospital treatments are now listed under clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered under each policy.")
      * [Clinical categories](/health_insurance/howitworks/clinical_categories.htm "Details of what is and is not covered by the clinical categories, with links to their MBS item numbers.")
      * [General Treatments](/health_insurance/howitworks/treatments.htm "Definitions of some services covered under General treatment private health insurance in Australia.")
      * [Registered health insurers](/health_insurance/howitworks/registeredinsurers.htm "Overview of the operation of health insurers registered under the Private Health Insurance Act 2007 in Australia")
      * [Private Health Information Statements](/health_insurance/howitworks/phis_guide.htm "Private Health Information Statements provide a summary of the services covered under private health insurance policies in Australia.")
      * [Waiting periods](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "Most private health insurance policies will have a waiting period associated with the services it covers, this means that when you take out the insurance you will have to serve the waiting period before you claim especially if you are claiming for treatment for a pre-existing condition.")
      * [Out of pocket costs](/health_insurance/howitworks/out_of_pocket.htm "Explains what a 'gap' or out of pocket cost is for both hospital and medical treatment and what you can do")
      * [Managing your policy](/health_insurance/howitworks/managing_your_policy.htm "You may be eligible for a discount on your premium or some insurers offer rate protection policies. You may be able to lower your premiums by choosing to not be covered for certain services \(exclusions\), receive limited benefits \(restricted benefits\), or to pay a set amount towards the costs of treatment \(excess or co-payment\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Registered health insurers

Private health insurance is provided by Australian registered health insurers.
Some insurers are not-for-profit (mutual) or return a profit to shareholders.
Some insurers provide restricted membership, for example to employees of
specific industries, while others are available to all consumers.

more

Private health insurance is provided by Australian registered health
insurers.Â The financial performance of registered health insurers is
monitored by the [Australian Prudential Regulation
Authority](http://www.apra.gov.au "Links - Other Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority \(APRA\)") (APRA), an independent Australian Government
body.

### A health insurer can: **  
**

 **Have different business structures** \- if a health insurer is listed asÂ
'not-for-profit', it is a mutual organisation, with the premiums paid to the
insurer used to operate the business and cover benefits for members. 'For-
profit' insurers aim to return a profit to their owners (which may be another
health insurer or corporation) or shareholders. Both are still required to
maintain sufficient funds to operate the company and pay benefits to their
members. **  
**

 **Offer insurance under brand names** - **Â** insurers can sell private
health insurance through other organisations, such as QANTAS and Kogan, by
underwriting their policies.

 **Only offer membership to certain individuals** -Â a health insurer is
registered as either an 'Open' or a 'Restricted' membership organisation.  

  * Open membership organisations provide policies to the general public.   

  * A [restricted membership organisation](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Funds") provides policies only through specific employment groups, professional associations or unions. **  
**

 **Offer corporate policies** \- some health insurers provide health cover
policies tailored for specific companies or organisations, which may be part
of the company's benefits package. **  
**

**Operate in one, some or all states or territories** \- many insurers operate
mainly in a particular state or region. This means they may have a wider
network of [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Agreement
hospitals") and [gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap cover
doctors") within that state or region. This is very important, because you are
more likely to be covered for hospital fees, medical gap fees, and pathology
and diagnostic imaging fees if your provider has an agreement with your
insurer.

It is important to note that even if your hospital stay is covered by your
insurer, you may have out-of-pocket expenses. This is because many doctors
charge more than the scheduled fee and sometimes in-patient pathology and
diagnostic imaging services in private hospitals are not covered.

Most larger insurers will offer different policies for different states or
territories, or the same policies at different premiums. Differences in price
are based on the variations in cost and benefit between states, and in some
cases state government health arrangements. **  
**

 **Not refuse you health insurance** \- private health insurance is
'community-rated'. This means that everyone is entitled to buy the same
product, at the same price (except for Lifetime Health Cover - see below), and
is guaranteed the right to renew their policy. A health insurer cannot refuse
to insure you or refuse to sell you any policy you want to buy on any basis,
regardless of your health or how likely you are to claim.

[Lifetime Health
Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm
"Lifetime Health Cover") (LHC) is an exception to community rating - you will
have to pay a higher premium if you have a LHC loading. The cost of premiums
for similar cover may vary between insurers.  

Private health insurance is different from life, trauma and disability
insurance. These insurances are 'risk-rated' rather than 'community-rated' and
generally offer lump-sum payments in the event of specific illness or loss.
They are not a substitute for private health insurance. **  
**

 **Change their premiums and rules** -Â if your health insurer changes your
policy, they areÂ required to tell you about any change that might be
detrimental to your interests; and they must update the policy'sÂ [Private
Health Information Statement](/health_insurance/howitworks/phis_guide.htm
"Private Health Information Statements").

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

