[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
      * [Product tiers](/health_insurance/howitworks/producttiers.htm "Four new tiers of hospital cover will begin rolling out from early 2019 and will become mandatory from 1 April 2020. All hospital insurance policies will be classified as Gold, Silver, Bronze or Basic. All hospital treatments are now listed under clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered under each policy.")
      * [Clinical categories](/health_insurance/howitworks/clinical_categories.htm "Details of what is and is not covered by the clinical categories, with links to their MBS item numbers.")
      * [General Treatments](/health_insurance/howitworks/treatments.htm "Definitions of some services covered under General treatment private health insurance in Australia.")
      * [Registered health insurers](/health_insurance/howitworks/registeredinsurers.htm "Overview of the operation of health insurers registered under the Private Health Insurance Act 2007 in Australia")
      * [Private Health Information Statements](/health_insurance/howitworks/phis_guide.htm "Private Health Information Statements provide a summary of the services covered under private health insurance policies in Australia.")
      * [Waiting periods](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "Most private health insurance policies will have a waiting period associated with the services it covers, this means that when you take out the insurance you will have to serve the waiting period before you claim especially if you are claiming for treatment for a pre-existing condition.")
      * [Out of pocket costs](/health_insurance/howitworks/out_of_pocket.htm "Explains what a 'gap' or out of pocket cost is for both hospital and medical treatment and what you can do")
      * [Managing your policy](/health_insurance/howitworks/managing_your_policy.htm "You may be eligible for a discount on your premium or some insurers offer rate protection policies. You may be able to lower your premiums by choosing to not be covered for certain services \(exclusions\), receive limited benefits \(restricted benefits\), or to pay a set amount towards the costs of treatment \(excess or co-payment\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Managing your policy

It's important to regularly review your health insurance requirements at
different stages in your life to check whether you have a policy which is
suits your healthcare needs and which covers the treatments you may need.

Although premiums are a factor to consider, it's also important to check what
is and isn't included on your policy, and whether excesses, co-payments and
benefit limits will influence the total cost to you for any treatment. The
cheapest policy may not necessarily be the best or right for you.

more

It's important to regularly review your health insurance requirements at
different stages in your life. The policy that suited you when you purchased
it may no longer meet your healthcare needs or cover the treatments you want
to include.

When shopping around for health insurance, you should consider what level of
cover you need, who is to be covered, the services and medical procedures you
require, and whether you are willing to reduce your premium by paying an
excess or co-payment each time you go to hospital.Â

Be sure you consider more than just your premium - consider how comprehensive
the cover is, and how excesses, co-payments and benefit limits will influence
the total cost to you for any treatment. The cheapest policy may not be the
best or right for you.

### Lowering your premiums

If the cost of your insurance has becomeÂ a concern, you can manage your
policy to allow you to have lower premiums.

Some health insurers provide discounts depending on your situation, rate
protection if you pay in advance and you may be able to suspend your
membership for a time rather than fall behind in payments.

Some hospital policies will give you full cover for hospital fees and in-
hospital medical charges. Other hospital policies require you to meet some of
the costs, in exchange for lower premiums. Other hospital policies do not
cover services that you may not need at your stage in life. You can agree to:

  * exclude certain services or condition from your policy (exclusions), for example pregnancy birth, or 
  * only receive limited benefits for certain services or conditions (restricted benefits), or 
  * pay a set amount towards the cost of your hospital treatment (excess or co-payment).

As with any other insurance policy, you can choose comprehensive cover with
higher premiums, or reduced cover with lower premiums. Â

  

#### Exclusions

If your policy has an exclusion for a particular condition or service, you are
not covered for treatment as a private patient in a public or private hospital
for that condition or service. You will face considerable [out-of-pocket
costs](/health_insurance/howitworks/out_of_pocket.htm "Out of pocket expenses
\(gap cover\)") if you seek treatment as a private patient.

For example, if your policy excludes pregnancy and birth, or hip replacements
and knee replacements, and you go into hospital as a private patient for one
of these conditions, your health insurer will not pay any benefits towards
your hospital and medical costs.

If you urgently need treatment for an excluded condition or service, you can
seek treatment as a public patient or cover the full cost of theÂ treatment
yourself. If you have time, you can contact your health insurer and upgrade
your policy to remove that exclusion, then serve the [waiting
period](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "Waiting periods")
before seeking private treatment.

#### Restricted Benefits

If your policy has restricted benefits for some conditions or services, you
will have a limited amount of cover for treatment of those conditions. You
will face considerable [out-of-pocket
costs](/health_insurance/howitworks/out_of_pocket.htm "Out of pocket expenses
\(gap cover\)") if you seek this treatment as a private patient.

If you need treatment for a restricted condition or service, you can seek
treatment as a public patient, or seek treatment as a private patient in a
public hospital, or cover some or most of theÂ cost of theÂ treatment
yourself.Â If you have time, you can contact your health insurer and upgrade
your policy to remove that exclusion, then serve the [waiting
period](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "Waiting periods")
before seeking private treatment.

#### Excess

An excess is an amount of money you agree to pay for a hospital stay, before
health insurer benefits are payable. This is sometimes referred to as a front-
end deductible.

For example, if your policy has an excess of $200, you will be required to pay
the first $200 of your hospital costs should you go to hospital as a private
patient. An excess may apply every time you, and anyone else listed on your
hospital policy, go to hospital in a year, or may be capped at a total amount
that you will have to pay if you go to hospital more than once in a year.

#### Co-payment

With a co-payment, you agree to pay a set amount each day you are in hospital.
This can also be referred to as an overnight excess, daily excess or patient
moiety.

For example, a policy may have a co-payment clause that requires you to pay
the first $50 for each day of hospital accommodation. If your policy has such
a co-payment and you were in hospital for five days, you would have to pay
$250 ($50 x 5). The total amount of co-payment you pay per hospital stay is
often limited to a set maximum amount.

### Discounts

Health insurers may offer discounts on premiums for people who:

  * pay their premiums at least three months in advance;
  * pay by payroll deduction;
  * pay by pre-arranged direct debit;
  * have agreed to communicate with the private health insurer and make claims under the policy by electronic means;
  * belong to a contribution group under the rules of the insurer, e.g. your health insurance product is organised through your workplace or an organisation you belong to; and 
  * whereÂ the insurer is not required to pay a state or territory levy (e.g. if you are a pensioner or a low income earner in New South Wales or the Australian Capital Territory, your premium may be reduced because you are entitled to free [ambulance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/ambulance.htm "Ambulance") cover). 

Check with your health insurer to see if you are eligible for any of these
discounts.  

### Rate protection

If you can pay your premiums 12 months in advance, some insurers will offer a
rate protection policy.

With a rate protection policy, you pay for the entire 12 month period at the
rate on that day. If the rates increase during your pre-paid period, those
increases in rate do not impact you until your 12 months of cover ends.

If you do not have a 'rate protection' policy, the insurer will ask you to pay
the balance owing on the new rates, or reduce the length of time your advance
payment covers.Â  

### Failure to pay  

If you fall more than two months behind in paying your contributions, you will
not be insured.

Some insurers may not accept payment of arrears in excess of two months. When
you resume your payment, the insurer may impose [waiting
periods](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "Waiting periods")
before you can claim benefits again.

It is your responsibility to make sure that your premium payments are up-to-
date and you remain financial with your health insurer.

  * If you are having difficulty keeping up with your payments because of a temporary problem, talk to your insurer to see if they will agree to a payment plan.
  * If you pay your premiums by a regular direct debit from a credit card or bank account, check each bank statement to make sure that the payments have been correctly debited.  

### Suspending your membership

Health insurers may grant suspensions for an agreed period of time, at their
own discretion, for circumstances such as working or studying overseas,
financial hardship or temporary unemployment.

During the suspension period you will not be able to make claims. If you are
over the income threshold, you will be required to pay the [Medicare Levy
Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Medicare
Levy Surcharge") for the suspension period. Suspension rules differ between
insurers so you should check to see if you will need to serve any [waiting
periods](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "Waiting periods")
after your suspension period ends.

Suspending your membership with the agreement of your health insurer will not
affect your [Lifetime Health
Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm
"Lifetime Health Cover")Â (LHC) entitlements, meaning that for LHC purposes
you are taken to be retaining your hospital cover. If you are paying a LHC
loading at the time your membership is suspended, any period of suspension
does not count towards the 10 years before your LHC loading is removed.Â

### Keep your details up to date

Always let your health insurer know about any changes in your circumstances
that might affect your cover. This includes change of address or contact
details, changes in your family circumstances (e.g. adding newborn children to
your policy), going overseas, or advising of a change in Medicare status.

Keeping your health insurer informed about changes in your circumstances can
help to avoid problems when you need to use your health insurance.

To make sure you receive notification of any changes to your cover, notify
your health insurer if you change your postal address or contact details.Â Â
If you move interstate, this might affect the amount ofÂ premiums you pay or
the benefits you are entitled to.Â

### Leaving or moving insurers

If you want to move from one insurer to another, you will not have to re-serve
waiting periods if you transfer to a policy that is at the same or a lower
level of benefit.Â

  * Your new insurer must give you continuity for the [waiting periods](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "waiting periods")you have already served. However, if your new plan includes new or higher benefits that were not part of your old policy, you will have to complete a waiting period before you can access those benefits.
  * You only have a limited time to change between insurers without losing continuity of your waiting periods. Check with your new insurer - some insurers will allow a break of up to two months but others may allow only one week. If you lose your continuity, you will have to re-serve waiting periods.  

  * Benefits paid by the previous insurer may be taken into account by your new insurer when it determines your annual benefit limits.
  * Checked whether any accrued benefits, credits or bonus points with your original insurer can be transferred to the new one - usually they cannot be transferred (e.g. accrued orthodontic benefits).Â 
  * Make sure you read all the documents you receive from the new insurer within your first month of membership. If there's anything you don't understand, contact the insurer.  

  * Transferring between insurers will not affect your [Lifetime Health Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm "Lifetime Health Cover")Â (LHC) entitlements, provided that you retain hospital cover.
  * If you decide to cancel your policy, your health insurer should pay back any contributions you have paid in advance. The insurer may deduct a small administration charge.

When you change insurers, make sure you request a copy of your **Clearance
Certificate** (also known as a Transfer Certificate) from your old insurer to
provide to your new insurer. This is a record of your membership, which will
ensure you retain continuity of your waiting periods and LHC entitlements.

* * *

#### Brochures and Factsheets

  * [Ten Golden Rules of Private Health Insurance](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications-and-news-pages/publication-pages/brochures-and-factsheets/factsheets/private-health-insurance/ten-golden-rules-of-private-health-insurance "The Private Health Insurance Ombudsman's tips for avoiding problems with private health insurance.")
  * [Policy Exclusions and Restrictions](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications-and-news-pages/publication-pages/brochures-and-factsheets/factsheets/private-health-insurance/policy-exclusions-and-restrictions "A fact sheet from the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman on health insurance exclusions and restrictions")
  * [Health Insurance Premium Increases](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications-and-news-pages/publication-pages/brochures-and-factsheets/factsheets/private-health-insurance/health-insurance-premium-increases "A factsheet from the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman about the reasons and processes behind premium increases")
  * [Clearance Certificates](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications-and-news-pages/publication-pages/brochures-and-factsheets/factsheets/private-health-insurance/clearance-certificates "A fact sheet from the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman on the importance of requesting a clearance certificate when you change health insurers")
  * [Membership Arrears](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications-and-news-pages/publication-pages/brochures-and-factsheets/factsheets/private-health-insurance/membership-arrears-keeping-your-premiums-up-to-date "A fact sheet from the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman on the importance of paying your premiums on time")
  * [Private Health Insurance and Hospital Agreements](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0017/115208/Fact-Sheet-Private-Health-Insurance-and-Hospital-Agreements.pdf "Private health insurance and hospital agreements - your options if your insurer and hospital terminate an agreement")

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

