[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## How Health Insurance Works

This website aims to answer your questions about private health insurance by
explaining how it works, and who and what is covered. You can also [compare
policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "Compare Policies") from different
[Health insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Funds") to help you to
choose a private health insurance policy that is right for you.

more

This website aims to answer your questions about private health insurance by
explaining how it works, and who and what is covered.Â You can also [compare
policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "Compare Policies") from different
[Health insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers") to help you
choose a policy that is right for you.

In Australia, private health insurance is 'community rated'. This means that
everyone is entitled to buy the same product, at the same price (except for
[Lifetime Health
Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm
"Lifetime Health Cover") and [Age-based
Discounts](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/discount_age.htm "Age-based
Discount")), and is guaranteed the right to renew their policy. A health
insurer cannot refuse to insure you or refuse to sell you any policy you want
to buy.

Some of the things to consider when looking into private health insurance
include:

  *  **[What is covered?](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "What is covered?")** In Australia, the public health system, Medicare, covers most Australian residents for health care. However, Medicare does not cover everything and you can choose to take out private health insurance to give yourself a wider range of health care options and more comprehensive cover.
  *  **[How does it work?](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "How it works")** There are two types of health insurance: hospital and general treatment (ancillary or extras) cover. You can buy policies for these types of cover separately or most insurers offer combined policies. There will be limitations on what and when you can claim with any policy you buy. 
  * **[What government incentives and surcharges affect my insurance?](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Government Incentives & Surcharges")Â **The Private Health Insurance Rebate, the Lifetime Health Cover rules, and Age-based discount affect how much you pay for private health insurance. The Medicare Levy Surcharge affects people earning above a certain threshold who don't hold private hospital cover.Â 
  * **[Overseas visitors& students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Overseas visitors & overseas students")** If you are in Australia on a temporary visa, you should consider taking out some form of visitor's health cover for the duration of your stay. On some visas, you may be required to take out a form of visitor's health insurance.  

* * *

#### More Information

  * [Your Health Care Choices (Youtube video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7uRFFoTpVRw "What's the difference between public and private health in Australia? How does private health insurance work? A video from Privatehealth.gov.au")

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

