[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

## Site map

This map of the PrivateHealth.gov.au website shows all sections and pages on
the site. You can also use the search at the top right of this page to find
information on the site.

  * [Home](/)
    * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")

How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.

      * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")

An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered
by Medicare for hospital, medical services (general treatment), pharmaceutical
benefits and ambulance.

        * [What is covered by Medicare?](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm "Describes what is and what is not covered by medicare for hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits.")

Describes what is and what is not covered by medicare for hospital, medical
and pharmaceutical benefits.

        * [What is covered by private health insurance?](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/privatehealth.htm "Describes what is covered by private health insurance for ambulance, hospital and general treatment \(also known as ancillary or extras\) cover. Also covers what may not be covered owing to exclusions, restrictions or benefit limitation periods on your policy.")

Describes what is covered by private health insurance for ambulance, hospital
and general treatment (also known as ancillary or extras) cover. Also covers
what may not be covered owing to exclusions, restrictions or benefit
limitation periods on your policy.

        * [Ambulance](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/ambulance.htm "Depending on which state you live you may need to organise ambulance cover to cover the costs of using an ambulance.")

Depending on which state you live you may need to organise ambulance cover to
cover the costs of using an ambulance.

      * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")

Describes how health insurance works, the different levels (categories) of
cover for both hospital and general treatment (ancillary/extras).

        * [Product tiers](/health_insurance/howitworks/producttiers.htm "Four new tiers of hospital cover will begin rolling out from early 2019 and will become mandatory from 1 April 2020. All hospital insurance policies will be classified as Gold, Silver, Bronze or Basic. All hospital treatments are now listed under clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered under each policy.")

Four new tiers of hospital cover will begin rolling out from early 2019 and
will become mandatory from 1 April 2020. All hospital insurance policies will
be classified as Gold, Silver, Bronze or Basic. All hospital treatments are
now listed under clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered
under each policy.

        * [Clinical categories](/health_insurance/howitworks/clinical_categories.htm "Details of what is and is not covered by the clinical categories, with links to their MBS item numbers.")

Details of what is and is not covered by the clinical categories, with links
to their MBS item numbers.

        * [General Treatments](/health_insurance/howitworks/treatments.htm "Definitions of some services covered under General treatment private health insurance in Australia.")

Definitions of some services covered under General treatment private health
insurance in Australia.

        * [Registered health insurers](/health_insurance/howitworks/registeredinsurers.htm "Overview of the operation of health insurers registered under the Private Health Insurance Act 2007 in Australia")

Overview of the operation of health insurers registered under the Private
Health Insurance Act 2007 in Australia

        * [Private Health Information Statements](/health_insurance/howitworks/phis_guide.htm "Private Health Information Statements provide a summary of the services covered under private health insurance policies in Australia.")

Private Health Information Statements provide a summary of the services
covered under private health insurance policies in Australia.

        * [Waiting periods](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm "Most private health insurance policies will have a waiting period associated with the services it covers, this means that when you take out the insurance you will have to serve the waiting period before you claim especially if you are claiming for treatment for a pre-existing condition.")

Most private health insurance policies will have a waiting period associated
with the services it covers, this means that when you take out the insurance
you will have to serve the waiting period before you claim especially if you
are claiming for treatment for a pre-existing condition.

        * [Out of pocket costs](/health_insurance/howitworks/out_of_pocket.htm "Explains what a 'gap' or out of pocket cost is for both hospital and medical treatment and what you can do")

Explains what a 'gap' or out of pocket cost is for both hospital and medical
treatment and what you can do

        * [Managing your policy](/health_insurance/howitworks/managing_your_policy.htm "You may be eligible for a discount on your premium or some insurers offer rate protection policies. You may be able to lower your premiums by choosing to not be covered for certain services \(exclusions\), receive limited benefits \(restricted benefits\), or to pay a set amount towards the costs of treatment \(excess or co-payment\).")

You may be eligible for a discount on your premium or some insurers offer rate
protection policies. You may be able to lower your premiums by choosing to not
be covered for certain services (exclusions), receive limited benefits
(restricted benefits), or to pay a set amount towards the costs of treatment
(excess or co-payment).

      * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")

Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.

        * [Australian Government Private Health Insurance Rebate](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/insurance_rebate.htm "Describes what the private health insurance rebate is and how to claim it.")

Describes what the private health insurance rebate is and how to claim it.

        * [Age-based Discount](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/discount_age.htm "An age-based discount may be available to people between 18 & 29 years-old who take out private health insurance.")

An age-based discount may be available to people between 18 & 29 years-old who
take out private health insurance.

        * [Lifetime Health Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm "Details of the Lifetime Health Cover loading and how it works.")

Details of the Lifetime Health Cover loading and how it works.

        * [Medicare Levy Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Details of the Medicare Levy Surcharge.")

Details of the Medicare Levy Surcharge.

      * [Overseas Visitors & Overseas Students](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")

Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to
take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.

        * [Overseas Visitors Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_visitors_health_cover.htm "Visitors to Australia on a temporary visa are generally not eligible for free health care as resident of Australia are, you should consider taking out Overseas Visitors Health Cover to cover any medical costs while you are in Australia.")

Visitors to Australia on a temporary visa are generally not eligible for free
health care as resident of Australia are, you should consider taking out
Overseas Visitors Health Cover to cover any medical costs while you are in
Australia.

        * [Overseas Student Health Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm "Students from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst studying in Australia.")

Students from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out
private health cover whilst studying in Australia.

        * [Working visa applicants](/health_insurance/overseas/workingvisa.htm "Applicants for working visas - such as 482 and 485 visas - may be required to hold Overseas Visitors Health Cover.")

Applicants for working visas - such as 482 and 485 visas - may be required to
hold Overseas Visitors Health Cover.

      * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")

From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make
private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic
hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is
not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.

    * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

    * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

      * [Client key loaded](/comparepolicies/clientload.htm "Successfully loaded personal key")

Successfully loaded personal key

    * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Got a question? Contact us today.

    * [Frequently Asked Questions](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")

This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.

  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")

Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket
expenses.

  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")

Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover (LHC) loading
payable on your hospital cover.

    * [Lifetime Health Cover calculator](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/lhc_calculator.htm "This calculator determines your Lifetime Health Cover loading.")

This calculator determines your Lifetime Health Cover loading.

    * [Ten Years Continuous Cover calculator](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/10year_calculator.htm "This calculator is for people who are already paying for hospital cover with a Lifetime Health Cover \(LHC\) loading. It will help you determine if you have paid a loading on your hospital cover for at least ten years.")

This calculator is for people who are already paying for hospital cover with a
Lifetime Health Cover (LHC) loading. It will help you determine if you have
paid a loading on your hospital cover for at least ten years.

  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")

Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.

  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")

Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses.

  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")

These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.

  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")

Does my policy cover

  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")

An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.

  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in
Australia.

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")

You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman (PHIO) using
this online form.

  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")

Useful links for health insurance in Australia.

  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")

Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.

  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.

  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")

Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au

  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

About PrivateHealth.gov.au.

    * [Copyright](/footer/about/copyright.htm "Copyright statement for PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

Copyright statement for PrivateHealth.gov.au.

    * [Standards compliance](/footer/about/standards.htm "Accessibility, CSS, Web standards")

Accessibility, CSS, Web standards

    * [Disclaimer](/footer/about/disclaimer.htm "Disclaimer for information provided by this website.")

Disclaimer for information provided by this website.

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

