[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
      * [Private Health Insurance Rebate](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/insurance_rebate.htm "Describes what the private health insurance rebate is and how to claim it.")
      * [Age-based Discount](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/discount_age.htm "An age-based discount may be available to people between 18 & 29 years-old who take out private health insurance.")
      * [Lifetime Health Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm "Details of the Lifetime Health Cover loading and how it works.")
      * [Medicare Levy Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Details of the Medicare Levy Surcharge.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Age-based Discount

As of 1 April 2019, insurers can offer people aged 18â29 years discounts of
up to 10 per cent of their private health insurance hospital premiums. People
will retain that discount until they turn 41, when it will be gradually phased
out.

more

As of 1 April 2019, insurers can offer people aged 18â29 years discounts of
up to 10 per cent of their private health insurance hospital premiums. People
will retain that discount until they turn 41, when it will be gradually phased
out.

The allowable discount is 2 per cent for each year that a person is aged under
30, to a maximum of 10 per cent for 18 to 25 year olds.

The age-based discount does not apply to people aged 18-29 years who are
covered as a dependent on a family or single parent policy. A person can
either have their own policy and be eligible for an age-based discount, or be
covered as a dependent, but not both.Â

If a policy offers age-based discounts they are available to both new and
existing policy holders.

### What if I change policies or insurers?

If you are transferring between policies or insurers, you should ask your
insurer if your existing discount will continue to apply to the new product.
You should confirm this prior to changing so you know whether your discount is
transferred.

Insurers can choose whether their age-based discounted products honour
existing age-based discounts when a consumer transfers between discounted
products and insurers.

### What are the discount rates per age?

Person's age when they became insured under hospital policy offering
discounts*| Percentage discount that insurer may offer  
---|---  
18-25| 10  
26| 8  
27| 6  
28| 4  
29| 2  
30| 0  
  
If you are on a couple or family policy, your discount is calculated as an
average between the individual discount of the two adults. For example, if one
person has a 10% discount and the other person has a 6% discount, the total
discount applied to the policy is 8%.

*Â _as a transitional arrangement for existing policy holders, their age when their insurer first introduces age-based discounts to their product. For example, a consumer who is 28 on 1 April 2019 could receive a 4 per cent discount, even if they first purchased hospital insurance when they were 26 years old._

#### How is the discount phased out?

When you turn 41, the discount is reduced by 2%. So if you had an existing 10%
discount, this reduces to 8% when you turn 41. For each further year, the
discount is reduced by a further 2% until it reaches 0%.

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

