[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private Health Insurance works in Australia.")
    * [Overview of Health System](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm "An overview of what is covered by private health insurance and what is covered by Medicare for hospital, medical services \(general treatment\), pharmaceutical benefits and ambulance.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Basics](/health_insurance/howitworks/index.htm "Describes how health insurance works, the different levels \(categories\) of cover for both hospital and general treatment \(ancillary/extras\).")
    * [Government Surcharges & Incentives](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/index.htm "Australian government incentives and surcharges for private health insurance.")
      * [Private Health Insurance Rebate](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/insurance_rebate.htm "Describes what the private health insurance rebate is and how to claim it.")
      * [Age-based Discount](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/discount_age.htm "An age-based discount may be available to people between 18 & 29 years-old who take out private health insurance.")
      * [Lifetime Health Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm "Details of the Lifetime Health Cover loading and how it works.")
      * [Medicare Levy Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Details of the Medicare Levy Surcharge.")
    * [Overseas Visitors & Students ](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm "Students and visitors from overseas may be required, or should consider, to take out private health cover whilst visiting Australia.")
    * [Private Health Insurance Changes](/health_insurance/phichanges/index.htm "From 1 April 2019, the Australian Government introduced new rules to help make private health insurance simpler including Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic hospital tiers, and standard clinical categories to describe what is and is not covered. Further changes were introduced in 2021.")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details & performance.")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match your needs.")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

## Government Surcharges & Incentives

The Australian Government provides theÂ [Private Health Insurance
Rebate](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/insurance_rebate.htm "Private
Health Insurance Rebate")Â and the [Age-based
Discount](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/discount_age.htm "Age-based
Discount") to encourageÂ people to take out and maintain private health
insurance. Most people are eligible for a rebate on their insurance costs.

If youÂ purchase hospital coverÂ after the 1 July following your 31st
birthday, you will have to pay theÂ [Lifetime Health
Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm
"Lifetime Health Cover")Â (LHC) loading on top of your premium. The loading
increasesÂ for every year you are aged over 30.

If you are not covered by a private hospital insurance policy and you earn
above a certain income threshold, you may have to payÂ theÂ [Medicare Levy
Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Medicare
Levy Surcharge")Â when you lodge your tax return.Â

more

The Australian Government provides the [Private Health Insurance
Rebate](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/insurance_rebate.htm "Private
Health Insurance Rebate")Â to encourageÂ people to take out and maintain
private health insurance. Most people are eligible for a rebate on their
insurance costs.

TheÂ [Age-based
Discount](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/discount_age.htm "Age-based
Discount") reduces the cost of starting private health insurance for people
aged between 18 and 29.

If youÂ purchase hospital coverÂ after the 1 July following your 31st
birthday, you will have to pay the [Lifetime Health
Cover](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm
"Lifetime Health Cover") (LHC) loading on top of your premium. The loading
increasesÂ for every year you are aged over 30.

You can check to see if you need to pay the LHC loading and how much it may be
by using the [Lifetime Health Cover
calculator](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/lhc_calculator.htm "Lifetime Health
Cover Calculator").

If you are not covered by a private hospital insurance policy and you earn
above a certain income threshold, you may have to payÂ the [Medicare Levy
Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm "Medicare
Levy Surcharge") when you lodge your tax return.  

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

