[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/logo-blue.svg)](/)

  * [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Health Insurance Works")
  * [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Health Insurers")
  * [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Compare Policies")
  * [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Contact Us")
  * [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently Asked Questions")
  * 

## Ask a question

You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman (PHIO) using
this online form.

more

### Alert: Enquiry response time

As part of our commitment to the health and safety of our staff and the
public, many of us are working remotely, and with government being focused on
essential services, it may take longer than usual to respond to your enquiry.

Thank you for your understanding while we navigate this challenging time
together.

####

Your question is important to us. So we can assist you further, please select
a topic from the list below:

You must have javascript enabled to run this page.

Please select a topic I want to compare health insurance policies I'm trying
to contact my health insurer I want to make a complaint about my health
insurer Lifetime Health Cover Medicare Levy Surcharge Visiting Australia from
overseas Out of pocket expenses and gap payments Waiting periods Ambulance
Website feedback Another question

You can compare health insurance policies on this website – go to [Compare
Policies](/dynamic/Search/Start) and follow the directions to find policies
that match your needs.

All you need is who is covered, where you live, and the type of cover you
want. Selecting specific hospital services or general treatments will provide
more tailored results but will take a bit longer.

You can find insurer contact details on this website – [select your
insurer](/dynamic/Insurer) and then select the "Contact" link under the
insurer name.

Policies are sometimes sold using secondary brand names or by another company.
If your insurer isn’t in this list, try entering a name in the search box to
locate the registered insurer.

You can lodge a complaint about private health insurance matters by completing
the online complaints form at
[Ombudsman.gov.au](http://www.ombudsman.gov.au/contact) or by calling 1300 362
072 (option 4 for private health insurance).

If you are raising a complaint about a health insurer and if your issue hasn't
already been escalated, our usual process is to refer your complaint to the
organisation or provider for a quicker response (for complaints about health
insurers, this is usually three business days from the time we contact the
insurer). It's important that they have an opportunity to review their
decision at a higher level, before we proceed with any investigation.

For more about what we do, see the [Commonwealth Ombudsman
website](http://www.ombudsman.gov.au/How-we-can-help/private-health-
insurance).

You can find information about [Lifetime Health Cover
(LHC)](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm) on
this website.

To calculate your LHC loading, or to check if you have completed 10 years of
continuous hospital cover, see the [LHC
calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm).

You can find information about the [Medicare Levy
Surcharge](/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm) on this
website.

For student visa applicants, see [Overseas Student Health
Cover](/health_insurance/overseas/overseas_student_health_cover.htm) or you
can find information [about visiting Australia from overseas on this
website](/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm).

You can find information about [out of pocket expenses and gap
payments](/health_insurance/howitworks/out_of_pocket.htm) on this website.

For information about each insurer’s gap cover arrangements, [see Gap cover
doctors](/dynamic/Insurer/GapDoctors).

You can find information about [waiting
periods](/health_insurance/howitworks/waiting_periods.htm) on this website.

You can find information about [ambulance
cover](/health_insurance/what_is_covered/ambulance.htm) on this website

If you have a comment or question about the website, please complete our
[Feedback form](/dynamic/Feedback).

Check the [FAQ (frequently asked questions)](/faq.htm) on the website for an
answer to your question.

If this link did not answer your question, please complete the form below and
we will contact you.

Name

Phone

Email

Question

Please select a topic from the above list.

If you’re experiencing problems with the Compare Policies tool, please tell us
as much as you can about how you answered the questions, including what type
of policy you need, who is covered, where you live, and what treatments you
selected.

Don't forget to give us the name of the organisation you purchased your
private health insurance from.

If you want to check your LHC loading, please complete the [LHC
calculator](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm) and copy and paste the
results screen into this field, or provide your details in this field. For
example:

  * date of birth
  * approximate date of Medicare registration
  * approximate dates of entries and exits from Australia
  * approximate dates of previous periods of private hospital cover.

If you want to check your Medicare Levy Surcharge bracket, please include your
approximate annual income and whether you are a single, couple or family for
tax purposes, and how many dependent children you have.

Please include information about the type of visa you hold or you’re applying
for.

Thank you for submitting your question. Your query has been received and a
member of our staff will be in contact with you soon by email or phone. We
usually respond within 3 business days.

less

[![PrivateHealth.gov.au](/assets/images/footer_logo.svg)](/
"PrivateHealth.gov.au home")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

  * [Compare policies](/footer/compareredirect.htm "This link in the footer redirects to the Compare page.")
  * [Agreement hospitals](/footer/agreementhospitals.htm "Insurers can negotiate agreements with hospitals to minimise out-of-pocket expenses.")
  * [Lifetime Health Cover calculators](/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm "Calculators to help you determine the lifetime health cover \(LHC\) loading payable on your hospital cover.")
  * [Restricted insurers](/footer/restricted_insurers.htm "Restricted Insurers cover specific industries or groups.")
  * [Gap cover doctors](/footer/gapcoverdoctors.htm "Gap Cover Doctors may limit your out-of-pocket expenses. ")
  * [MBS item numbers](/footer/mbsitems/index.htm "These pages list the MBS items associated with clinical categories.")
  * [Does my policy cover](/footer/doesmypolicycover.htm "Does my policy cover")
  * [Medical Costs Finder](/footer/costsfinder.htm "An online tool to find out more about the cost of specialist medical services.")
  * [Glossary](/footer/glossary.htm "Definitions of common terms used in private health insurance policies in Australia.")

  * [Ask a question](/footer/ask_a_question.htm "You can ask a question of the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman \(PHIO\) using this online form.")
  * [Links](/footer/links.htm "Useful links for health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Brochures](/footer/brochures.htm "Brochures relating to private health insurance in Australia.")
  * [Privacy](/footer/privacy.htm "The privacy policy of PrivateHealth.gov.au.")
  * [Site map](/footer/sitemap.htm "Sitemap for PrivateHealth.gov.au")
  * [About this site](/footer/about/index.htm "About PrivateHealth.gov.au.")

[![Australian
Government](/assets/images/ag.svg)](https://www.australia.gov.au/ "Australian
Government")

[![Commonwealth
Ombudsman](/assets/images/ombudsman.svg)](https://ombudsman.gov.au
"Commonwealth Ombudsman")

## [How Health Insurance Works](/health_insurance/index.htm "How Private
Health Insurance works in Australia.")

Your questions answered.

## [Health Insurers](/healthinsurers/index.htm "Policies, contact details &
performance.")

Policies, contact details & performance.

## [Compare Policies](/comparepolicies/index.htm "Find policies that match
your needs.")

Find policies that match your needs.

## Search this site

Find out about Private Health Insurance.

## [FAQ](/faq.htm "Frequently asked questions.")

Frequently asked questions.

## [Contact Us](/contactus.htm "Got a question? Contact us today.")

Need more information? Contact us today.

