Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1) /
  * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1) /
  * [Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicines-1) /
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmaceutical+Benefits+Scheme+%28PBS%29-1) /
  * [Alternative Arrangements for Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Alternative+Arrangements+for+Medicines-1) /

# S100 Remote Area Aboriginal Health Services (RAAHS) Program Information
Sheet

The following page contains information on improving access to essential
medicines by clients of remote Aboriginal Health Services through the special
PBS supply arrangements enacted under the provisions of section 100 of the
National Health Act 1953.

 __Page last updated: 06 February 2023

## Senate Community Affairs References Committee

The Senate Community Affairs References Committee conducted an enquiry into
the special arrangements for the supply of Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(PBS) medicines to Remote Area Aboriginal Health Services in 2011. The
Committee reported on 11 October 2011, with ten recommendations. The
Department prepared a response which was tabled in Parliament on 20 March
2018.  
  
[Government Response to Senate Enquiry into RAAHS March 2018 (PDF 256
KB)](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/content/AC97597F257E6ABBCA257BF0001FE872/$File/government-
response-to-senate-enquiry-into-raahs-march-2018.pdf)  
[Government Response to Senate Enquiry into RAAHS March 2018 (Word 104
KB)](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/content/AC97597F257E6ABBCA257BF0001FE872/$File/government-
response-to-senate-enquiry-into-raahs-march-2018.docx)  

## Obtaining pharmaceutical benefit items

Each participating remote area AHS will maintain a stock of pharmaceutical
benefit items, ordered using an approval form on a bulk supply basis from an
approved pharmacist or an approved hospital authority, and dispensed through
the AHS as appropriate. Pharmaceutical benefit items must be supplied directly
by the approved pharmacist or the approved hospital authority to the
participating AHS and not directly to the patients. Approved pharmacist and
approved hospital authorities will be reimbursed directly by Services
Australia. For more information about claiming visit the [Services Australia
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/remote-area-aboriginal-health-
services-raahs-or-ahs-and-pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme).  

## Dispensing

Pharmaceutical benefit items will be dispensed to patients by an appropriate
health professional (either a medical practitioner, or an Aboriginal Health
Worker or nurse working under the supervision of a medical practitioner, where
consistent with the law of the relevant State or Territory). A patient who is
supplied with a pharmaceutical benefit under this arrangement is not to be
charged a patient co-payment.  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2021-22** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$236,120

|

$24,404,364

|

$8,699,885

|

$643,574

|

$11,648,846

|

$45,632,791  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

9,868

|

938,924

|

300,515

|

23,814

|

464,641

|

1,737,762  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2020-21** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$169,830

|

$21,435,695

|

$8,012,790

|

$1,758,098

|

$10,220,413

|

$41,596,827  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

7,280

|

827,924

|

289,364

|

64,315

|

417,392

|

1,606,275  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2019-20** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$177,460

|

$20,641,916

|

$7,228,060

|

$1,801,632

|

$9,454,276

|

$39,303,344  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

8,411

|

909,995

|

309,863

|

76,508

|

435,649

|

1,740,426  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2018-19** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$142,783

|

$19,176,041

|

$6,885,636

|

$1,682,239

|

$9,039,778

|

$36,926,476  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

6,361

|

800,650

|

290,415

|

68,044

|

394,417

|

1,559,887  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2017-18** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$231,012

|

$21,480,420

|

$7,007,884

|

$700,248

|

$9,828,231

|

$39,247,797  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

11,338

|

876,814

|

287,418

|

30,011

|

424,500

|

1,630,081  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2016-17** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$213,216

|

$20,193,869

|

$6,465,446

|

$800,211

|

$10,238,621

|

$37,911,366  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

9,656

|

855,128

|

283,550

|

32,314

|

431,253

|

1,611,901  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2015-16** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$120,534

|

$15,011,118

|

$5,153,593

|

$1,358,950

|

$8,399,560

|

$30,043,756  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

4,723

|

625,543

|

217,623

|

52,760

|

351,498

|

1,252,147  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2014-15** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$130,175

|

$15,166,786

|

$4,418,312

|

$1,258,252

|

$8,374,114

|

$29,347,639  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

6,419

|

664,252

|

192,927

|

50,801

|

370,772

|

1,285,171  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2013-14** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$204,613

|

$20,194,819

|

$6,845,301

|

$905,621

|

$10,363,014

|

$38,513,368  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

8,910

|

853,544

|

272,371

|

40,300

|

422,408

|

1,597,533  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2012-13** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$192,434

|

$18,826,659

|

$6,637,563

|

$802,395

|

$10,449,937

|

$36,908,987  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

7,466

|

711,291

|

241,561

|

33,544

|

395,608

|

1,389,470  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2011-12** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$264,355

|

$21,253,511

|

$8,223,233

|

$955,843

|

$11,988,110

|

$42,685,052  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

9,997

|

795,228

|

275,165

|

39,733

|

412,966

|

1,533,069  
  
  
**Total Expenditure for Medicines and Number of PBS Items Supplied to
Participating Aboriginal Health Services 2010-11** ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

NSW/TAS

|

NT

|

QLD

|

SA

|

WA

|

TOTAL  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
TOTAL ($)|

$375,908

|

$20,494,309

|

$6,825,409

|

$757,268

|

$10,640,277

|

$39,093,170  
  
PBS Items Supplied|

13,567

|

792,943

|

254,253

|

31,975

|

374,451

|

1,467,189  
  
Notes:

    1. PBS Items supplied data are the total number of PBS items supplied to approved AHSs, not those dispensed to clients. 
    2. Expenditure data based on all claims paid and itemised data based on items supplied reports. (Source: Services Australia). 
    3. Expenditure does not include GST. 
    4. No remote area services in Victoria or ACT have been identified.

  
  
Further information, please [email the
Department](mailto:S100-remotepharmsupport@health.gov.au)
(S100-remotepharmsupport@health.gov.au)  
Top of page

### In this section

  * [ __Aboriginal Health Services and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fhealth-
pbs-indigenous-info "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
  * [Clinical Trials](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Clinical-Trials)
  * [Complementary Medicines](http://www.tga.gov.au/industry/cm.htm)
  * [Medical Devices](http://www.tga.gov.au/industry/devices.htm)
  * [Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicines-1)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmacy-2)
    * [Product Recall](http://www.tga.gov.au/safety/recalls.htm)
    * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmaceutical+Benefits+Scheme+%28PBS%29-1)
      * [Alternative Arrangements for Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Alternative+Arrangements+for+Medicines-1)
    * [National Medicines Policy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National+Medicines+Policy-1)

**Related Information**  
These links provide access to more specific PBS s100 information.  
  
[>> Eligibility Criteria](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-
indigenous-eligibility)  
[>> Obtaining pharmaceutical benefit
items](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-info)  
[>> Dispensing](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-
info)  
[>> Remuneration and claims system for
Pharmacists](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-
remuneration)  
[>> Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
pbs-indigenous-faq)  
[>> s100 Information Sheet](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-
indigenous-info)  
[>> Application Form](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-
indigenous-application-form)  
[>> RRMA
Search](http://www.doctorconnect.gov.au/internet/otd/publishing.nsf/Content/locator)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **third** , **fourth** and **last** digits of 214306

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

