Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro) /
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care) /

# Medicare Health Assessments Resource Kit

Fact sheets and templates on Medicare health assessment items.

 __Page last updated: 12 March 2021

This kit contains fact sheets with information on the Healthy Kids Check, type
2 diabetes risk evaluation, the health assessment for people aged 45-49 years,
the health assessment for people aged 75 years and older, the comprehensive
medical assessment for permanent residents of residential aged care
facilities, the health assessment for people with an intellectual disability
and the health assessment for refugees and other humanitarian entrants. Also
included in this kit is the fact sheet for the Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander Peoples Health Assessment. These fact sheets have been updated to
reflect changes to MBS item numbers resulting from the MBS Review.

### Fact Sheets

[MBS Health Assessments Items 701, 703, 705, 707, 715 and 10986 (PDF 233
KB)](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_mbsitem_general_factsheet)  
[Health assessment for people aged 45 to 49 years who are at risk of
developing chronic
disease](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_mbsitem701_703_705_707)  
[Health assessment for people aged 40 to 49 years with a high risk of
developing type 2
diabetes](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_mbsitem_type2diabetes)  
[Health assessment for people aged 75 years and
older](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_mbsitem_75andolder)  
[Comprehensive medical assessment for residents of residential aged care
facilities](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_mbsitem_cma)  
[Health assessment for people with an intellectual
disability](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_mbsitem_intellectual_disability)  
[Health assessment for refugees and other humanitarian
entrants](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_mbsitem_refugees)  
[Health Assessment for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People (MBS Item
715)](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_ATSI_MBSitem715)  
[GP Health Assessment for Former Australian Defence Force (ADF)
Personnel](healthassessmentforadf)  

### Questions and Answers

[Questions and Answers - Annual Health Assessment for People with an
Intellectual
Disability](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare-
qandaintelldisability)  
[Questions and Answers - Health assessment for refugees and other humanitarian
entrants](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_mbsitem_refugees_qanda)  

### Health Assessment Proformas (MBS Items 701, 703, 705 and 707)

The health assessment proformas are intended for use only by general
practitioners to complete with patient details and to record the results of
the health assessment.  
[Australian Type 2 Diabetes Risk Assessment (AUSDRISK)
Tool](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/chronic-
diab-prev-aus)  
[Proforma - Health Assessment for People Aged 45 to 49 years who are at risk
of developing chronic disease (RTF 1552
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Health%20Assessment%20for%20people%20aged%2045%20to%2049%20yrs%20at%20risk%20of%20developing%20chronic%20disease%20Proforma%20final.rtf)  
[Proforma - Health Assessment for People Aged 45 to 49 years who are at risk
of developing chronic disease (PDF 68
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Health%20Assessment%20for%20people%20aged%2045%20to%2049%20yrs%20at%20risk%20of%20developing%20chronic%20disease%20Proforma%20final.pdf)  
[Proforma - Health assessment for people aged 75 years and older (RTF 3870
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Health%20Assessment%20for%20Older%20Persons%20Proforma%20FINAL,%20March%202014.rtf)  
[Proforma - Health assessment for people aged 75 years and older (PDF 461
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Health%20Assessment%20for%20Older%20Persons%20Proforma%20FINAL,%20March%202014.pdf)  
[Checklist - Comprehensive Medical Assessment (CMA) for residents of aged care
facilities (Word 477
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Comprehensive%20Medical%20Assessment%20\(CMA\)%20for%20residents%20of%20aged%20care%20facilities%20Checklist%20FINAL.docx)  
[Checklist - Comprehensive Medical Assessment (CMA) for residents of aged care
facilities (PDF 418
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Comprehensive%20Medical%20Assessment%20\(CMA\)%20for%20residents%20of%20aged%20care%20facilities%20Checklist%20FINAL.pdf)  
[Proforma - Comprehensive Medical Asssessment (CMA) for residents of aged care
facilities (Word 477
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Comprehensive%20Medical%20Assessment%20\(CMA\)%20for%20residents%20of%20aged%20care%20facilities%20Proforma%20FINAL.docx)  
[Proforma - Comprehensive Medical Asssessment (CMA) for residents of aged care
facilities (PDF 466
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Comprehensive%20Medical%20Assessment%20\(CMA\)%20for%20residents%20of%20aged%20care%20facilities%20Proforma%20FINAL,%20March%202014.pdf)  
[Proforma - Health Assessment for people with an intellectual disability (Word
480
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Health%20Assessment%20for%20people%20with%20an%20intellectual%20disability%20Proforma%20final.docx)  
[Proforma - Health Assessment for people with an intellectual disability (PDF
159
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Health%20Assessment%20for%20people%20with%20an%20intellectual%20disability%20Proforma%20final.pdf)  
[Proforma - Health Assessment for refugees and other humanitarian entrants
(RTF 3758
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Refugee%20Health%20Assessment%20Proforma%20Final.rtf)  
[Proforma - Health Assessment for refugees and other humanitarian entrants
(PDF 480
KB)](AA19024A21F2A7EACA257BF0001DAB97/$File/Refugee%20Health%20Assessment%20Proforma%20Final.pdf)  

### Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples MBS Health Assessment
Templates (MBS Item 715)

The health assessment templates are available at the Royal Australian College
of General Practitioners’ [website](https://www.racgp.org.au/the-
racgp/faculties/atsi/cultural-safety/resources/2019-mbs-item-715-health-check-
templates). If you have any queries related to these items or difficulty
accessing the PDFs above, please contact [MBD
Web](mailto:mbd.web@health.gov.au).

### In this section

  * [ __Autism — Helping Children with Autism program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/autism-children)
  * [ __Disability — Better Start for Children with Disability initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/children_disability)
  * [ __Pregnancy support counselling](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pcd-pregnancy-support.htm)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fmha_resource_kit
"Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
  * [Claiming from Medicare](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/dhs/medicare)
  * [Diagnostic imaging under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/diagnosticimaging-aboutus.htm)
  * [e-Health records Medicare data](http://www.ehealth.gov.au/internet/ehealth/publishing.nsf/content/home)
  * [Medicare safety net arrangements 1973 to 2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/EMSN_Landing_Page)
  * [Legislation](http://www.legislation.gov.au/)
  * [MBS Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Services Advisory Committee](http://www.msac.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strategicpolicyMTO.htm)
  * [Pathology under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pathology-aboutus-index.htm)
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_ATSI_mbsha_resource_kit)
  * [Radiation therapy under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-roi-aboutus.htm)
  * [Statistics under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicare+Statistics-1)
  * [Specialist video consultations under Medicare](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsonline-telehealth-landing.htm)
  * [Your Questions Answered](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medicare-your-questions-answered)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **fifth** and **last** digits of 974418

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

