Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1) /
  * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1) /
  * [Communicable Diseases Intelligence](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-cdi-cdiintro.htm) /
  * [Communicable Diseases Surveillance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-about.htm) /
  * [Communicable Diseases Intelligence (CDI)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cdi-aims.htm) /
  * [Instructions for authors](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-cdi-auth_inst.htm) /

# _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_ instructions for authors

Contributions to be published in the _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_
journal are welcomed. This page contains information for authors considering
submitting a contribution.

 __Page last updated: 22 May 2023

## CDI Instructions for authors

For all work intended for submission to CDI, please follow the submission
guidelines contained within the ‘ _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_
Instructions for Authors’ document, which provides detailed guidelines on

  * Acceptable manuscript types
  * Manuscript structure and word limits
  * Authorship, ethics, copyright and privacy declarations
  * Style guidelines
  * Technical specifications and accessibility requirements for figures

_Communicable Diseases Intelligence_ instructions for authors ([PDF 769
KB](17C768002A1C0069CA257BF0001A0545/$File/communicable_diseases_intelligence_instructions_for_authors.pdf))
([Word 6.73
MB](17C768002A1C0069CA257BF0001A0545/$File/communicable_diseases_intelligence_instructions_for_authors.docx))

* * *

## Submission package

To ensure the efficient handling of submitted manuscripts, authors must submit
the following documents and files at one time to
[cdi.editor@health.gov.au](mailto:cdi.editor@health.gov.au).

  * Article Submission Coversheet.
  * Article in Microsoft Word format.
  * Article charts in an appropriate format (Microsoft Excel or otherwise): see [Instructions for Authors](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-cdi-auth_inst.htm).
  * Article illustrations in an appropriate format, at 300 dpi resolution or higher.
  * Depending on submission circumstances (see below): either a Copyright Transfer Agreement or an Australian Privacy Principle 5 (APP5) Notification Form.
  * Accessibility information: 
    * Article summary.
    * Table descriptions.
    * Figure descriptions. 

### Article Submission Coversheet

_(All submissions)_

Article Submission Coversheet ([PDF 410
KB](17C768002A1C0069CA257BF0001A0545/$File/CDI-
article%20submission%20coversheet.pdf)) ([Word 43
KB](17C768002A1C0069CA257BF0001A0545/$File/CDI-
article%20submission%20coversheet.docx))

### Copyright Transfer Agreement

_(Only for unsolicited contributions from authors external to the Australian
Government)_

Copyright Transfer Agreement ([Word 82.49
KB](17C768002A1C0069CA257BF0001A0545/$File/cdi_copyright_transfer_agreement.docx))
([PDF 292.89
KB](17C768002A1C0069CA257BF0001A0545/$File/cdi_copyright_transfer_agreement.pdf))

### Australian Privacy Principle 5 (APP5) Notification Form

_(Only for use by Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care
contributors, and for authors of regular surveillance reports wherein the
copyright is contractually vested in the Department)_

Australian Privacy Principle 5 (APP5) Notification Form ([PDF 792
KB](17C768002A1C0069CA257BF0001A0545/$File/australian_privacy_principle_5_notification.pdf))
([Word 5.44
MB](17C768002A1C0069CA257BF0001A0545/$File/australian_privacy_principle_5_notification.docm))

  

### In this section

  *  **[ __ _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_ instructions for authors](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-cdi-auth_inst.htm)**

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fcda-
pubs-cdi-auth_inst.htm "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
  * [Communicable Diseases Intelligence](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-cdi-cdiintro.htm)
    * [Communicable Diseases Surveillance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-about.htm)
      * [Communicable Diseases Network Australia (CDNA)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cdna-cdna.htm)
      * [Communicable Diseases Intelligence (CDI)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cdi-aims.htm)
        * [Search _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-search)
        * [CDI Newsletter archive](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-newsletter-archive-index)
        * [Subscribe now](https://confirmsubscription.com/h/r/091E88E7E83AC090)
        * [ _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_ latest articles](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-cdi-cdicur.htm)
        * [ _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_ Early release](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cdi-early-release)
        * [Instructions for authors](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-cdi-auth_inst.htm)
        * [Annual reports](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/annual+reports-1)
        * [Subject and author indexes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Subject+and+author+indexes-1)
        * [Supplements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdisupplements-1-lp)
        * [2023 Articles](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-2023-index)
        * [2022 Articles](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-2022-index)
        * [2021 Articles](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-2021-index)
        * [2020 Articles](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-2020-index)
        * [2019 Articles](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-2019-index)
        * [2018 Articles](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-2018-index)
        * [2017 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2017+issues-1)
        * [2016 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2016+issues-1)
        * [2015 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2015+issues-1)
        * [2014 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2014+issues-1)
        * [2013 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2013+issues-1)
        * [2012 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2012+issues-1)
        * [2011 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2011+issues-1)
        * [2010 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2010+issues-1)
        * [2009 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2009+issues-1)
        * [2008 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2008+issues-1)
        * [2007 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2007+issues-1)
        * [2006 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2006+issues-1)
        * [2005 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2005+issues-1)
        * [2004 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2004+issues-1)
        * [2003 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2003+issues-1)
        * [2002 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2002+issues-1)
        * [2001 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2001+issues-1)
        * [2000 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/2000+issues-1)
        * [1999 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/1999+issues-1)
        * [1998 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/1998+issues-1)
        * [1997 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/1997+issues-1)
        * [1996 issues](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/1996+issues-1)
        * [Communicable Diseases Intelligence Technical report series](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Communicable+Diseases+Intelligence+Technical+report+series-2)
      * [Surveillance Systems](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-surveil-surv_sys.htm)
  * [Australian Influenza Surveillance Reports](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-surveil-ozflu-flucurr.htm)

**Communicable Diseases Surveillance**

  * [What’s new](cda-new.htm)
  * [About us](cda-about.htm)
  * [Surveillance](cda-surveil-surv_sys.htm)
  * [Communicable disease data](http://www9.health.gov.au/cda/source/cda-index.cfm)
  * [Publications](cda-pubs-cdi-cdiintro.htm)
  * [Contact us](cda-contact.htm)
  * [Related links](cda-cdilinks.htm)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **third** , **fifth** and **last** digits of 748793

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

