Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1) /
  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu) /

# Programs & Initiatives

A list of all Health programs and initiatives.

 __Page last updated: 29 May 2023 (this page is generated automatically and
reflects updates to other content within the website)

Programs & Initiatives search

1\. Keyword:

Keyword search

2\. Topic:

Select a topic...Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander HealthAlcoholAnnual
reportsAntibiotic resistanceArthritisAsthmaAutismBlood and Blood
productsBreastfeedingBudgetCancerCardiovascular diseasesCarersCasemixChild
healthChronic diseaseClinical TrialsCommunicable diseasesCouncilsDental
healthDiabetesDiagnostic imagingDiseases and conditionsDrugsDrugs and
substance abusee-HealthEmergency managementEnvironmental healthExerciseEye
healthFood standardsFraudGeneral practiceGP Super ClinicsGrantsHealth care
systemsHealth insuranceHealth personnelHealth promotionHealth TechnologyHealth
workforceHearingHepatitis BHepatitis CHIVHIV/AIDSHormonesHospitalsIllegal
drugsImmunisationInfant HealthInfluenzaInjury preventionLegislationMale
HealthMaternal HealthMedical indemnityMedical Treatment
OverseasMedicareMedicinal cannabisMen's healthMental
healthMidwivesNursingNutritionObesityOncologyOrgan and tissue
donationPalliative carePandemicPathologyPersonally controlled electronic
health recordsPharmaceutical benefitsPharmacyPhysical activityPrescribed
drugsPrimary health carePrivate Health InsuranceProfessional indemnityPublic
awarenessRadiationRegulation and Red Tape ReductionResearch and
developmentRural health servicesSexual HealthSpeech
pathologySportStatisticsSuicide preventionTobaccoWomen's healthYouth health
Topic search

3.

[Browse all programs and
initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-all)

A list of all Health programs and initiatives.| Program/Initiative| Health
topics  
---|---|---  
1.|

 **[2009/10 Annual Report Element 3— National Partnership Agreement on
Indigenous Early Childhood Development (NPA
IECD)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/npaiecd-2009-10report)**

The 2009/10 Annual Report describes progress on achievements against outputs
for Element Three—New Directions: Mothers and Babies Services (NDMB) program
of the National Partnership Agreement between 1 July 2009 and 30 June 2010.

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
2.|

 **[2010/11 Annual Report Element 3— National Partnership Agreement on
Indigenous Early Childhood Development (NPA
IECD)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/npaiecd-2010-11report)**

This 2010/11 Annual Report (the Report) describes progress on achievements
against outputs for Element Three—New Directions: Mothers and Babies Services
(NDMB) program of the National Partnership between 1 July 2010 and 30 June
2011.

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
3.|

 **[2011/12 Annual Report Element 3— National Partnership Agreement on
Indigenous Early Childhood Development (NPA
IECD)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/npaiecd-2011-12report)**

The 2011/12 Annual Report describes progress on achievements against outputs
for Element Three—New Directions: Mothers and Babies Services (NDMB) program
of the National Partnership Agreement between 1 July 2011 and 30 June 2012.

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
4.|

 **[2012/13 Annual Report - Element 3 - National Partnership Agreement -
Indigenous Early Childhood
Development](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/npaiecd-2012-13report)**

This 2012/13 Annual Report describes progress on achievements against outputs
for Element Three of the National Partnership from 1 July 2012 and 30 June
2013.

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
5.|

 **[2013/14 Annual Report Element 3 National Partnership Agreement Indigenous
Early Childhood
Development](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/npaiecd-2013-14report)**

This 2013/14 Annual Report describes progress on achievements against outputs
for Element Three of the National Partnership from 1 July 2013 and 30 June
2014.

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
6.|

 **[Abbreviations and
definitions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/biosimilar-abbreviations-
and-definitions)**

|  
7.|

 **[Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Data
Reporting](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-
islander-health-data-reporting)**

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
8.|

 **[Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health organisations: Online
Services Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal-and-Torres-
Strait-Islander-health-organisations-Online-Services-Report)**

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
9.|

 **[Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Services Data Advisory Group
(HS DAG)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal-and-Torres-Strait-
Islander-Health-Services-Data-Advisory-Group)**

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
10.|

 **[Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
Scholarship](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-ab-atsis)**

This page provides information about scholarships that are specific to
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples through the Puggy Hunter
Memorial Scholarship Scheme (PHMSS), Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
Pharmacy Scholarship Scheme (ATSIPSS) and Australian Rotary Indigenous Health
Scholarships (ARIHS)

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
11.|

 **[Aboriginal Males Shedding the
Smokes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-innovation-
grants-sa)**

|  
12.|

 **[Access to Medicare for Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services
(ACCHS) under 19(2) and 19(5)
Directions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Access-to-Medicare-for-
Aboriginal-Community-Controlled-Health-Services)**

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
13.|

 **[After Hours Other Medical Practitioners (AHOMPs)
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-ahomps)**

The AHOMPs Program currently provides access to higher Medicare rebates to
non-vocationally recognised (non-VR) medical practitioners providing after
hours general practice services through an accredited general practice or an
accredited Medical Deputising Service (MDS).

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
14.|

 **[After hours primary health
care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primary-ahphc)**

After hours primary health care is accessible and effective primary health
care for people whose health condition cannot wait for treatment until regular
primary health care services are next available. It should not be a substitute
for primary health care that could otherwise occur 'in hours'.

|

  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)

  
15.|

 **[Alcohol](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-
drugs-alcohol-index.htm)**

Initiatives to minimise the harmful effects of alcohol consumption in
Australian society.

|

  * [Alcohol](portal-Alcohol)

  
16.|

 **[Antimicrobial Resistance – Targeted Call for
Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-research-future-fund-
antimicrobial-resistance-budget-2017)**

|

  * [Antibiotic resistance](portal-Antibiotic resistance)

  
17.|

 **[Australian Capital Territory Speech Pathology
Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australian-capital-territory-
speech-pathology-links)**

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
18.|

 **[Australian General Practice Training programme
(AGPT)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-agpt)**

The Australian General Practice Training (AGPT) programme is a fully
Commonwealth funded postgraduate vocational training programme for medical
graduates wishing to pursue a career in general practice.

|

  * [General practice](portal-General practice)
  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
19.|

 **[Australian Government Hearing Services
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-hear-contacts-
clsline.htm)**

|

  * [Hearing](portal-Hearing)

  
20.|

 **[Australian Primary Care Collaboratives Programme
(APCCP)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pcd-programs-apccp-
index.htm)**

The Australian Primary Care Collaboratives Programme supports general
practices to improve clinical outcomes, help maintain good health for those
with chronic and complex conditions, and improve access to Australian general
practice by promoting a culture of quality improvement in primary health care.

|

  * [Chronic disease](portal-Chronic disease)
  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)
  * [General practice](portal-General practice)

  
21.|

 **[Ban on the use of animal test data for
cosmetics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ban-cosmetic-testing-
animals)**

This page contains information regarding the ban on the use of animal test
data for cosmetics.

|  
22.|

 **[Better Access Telehealth Services for people in rural and remote
areas](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-ba-telehealth)**

The Australian Government is improving mental health support for people who
live in rural and regional Australia by investing in Better Access services
via video conferencing.

|

  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)
  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)

  
23.|

 **[Better Access to Psychiatrists, Psychologists and General Practitioners
through the MBS (Better Access)
initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-ba)**

The Better Access initiative provides better access to mental health
practitioners through Medicare.

|

  * [General practice](portal-General practice)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Medicare](portal-Medicare)
  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
24.|

 **[Biosimilar Awareness
Initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/biosimilar-awareness-
initiative)**

The Initiative was announced in May 2015 as part of the Pharmaceutical
Benefits Scheme Access and Sustainability Package. The aim of the Initiative
is to support awareness of, and confidence in, the use of biosimilar medicines
for healthcare professionals and consumers.

|  
25.|

 **[BMP Scheme — Enrolment process for
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-bonded-medical-places-scheme-
application-form)**

This page provides an enrolment process for the 2019 Bonded Medical Places
Scheme.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
26.|

 **[BMP Scheme — Information booklet for
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-bonded-medical-places-scheme-
information-booklet-BMP)**

This booklet provides information about the 2019 Bonded Medical Places (BMP)
Scheme including eligibility and obligations, frequently asked questions and
contact details.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
27.|

 **[BMP Scheme — Sample deed of agreement
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-bonded-medical-places-scheme-
deed-of-agreement-sample-BMP)**

This page provides a sample copy of the 2019 Bonded Medical Places Scheme Deed
of Agreement.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
28.|

 **[Bonded Medical Places (BMP) Scheme -
Summary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/bonded-medical-places-
summary)**

The BMP Scheme is intended to provide more doctors for areas experiencing
doctor shortages. Twenty five percent of all first year Commonwealth Supported
Places (CSP) in Australian medical schools are allocated to the Scheme. This
is expected to increase to 28.5% by 2017.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
29.|

 **[Bonded Medical Places (BMP)
Scheme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-bmp)**

The Government’s Bonded Programs aim to provide more Australian trained
doctors where there are workforce shortages, particularly in rural and remote
Australia.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
30.|

 **[Bonded Medical Places (BMP) Scheme Letter offering
MMM](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/bmp-scheme-letter-offering-mmm)**

This page contains a letter sent to the participants of the BMP Scheme

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
31.|

 **[Bonded Medical Places commonly asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-bonded-medical-places-
scheme-frequently-asked-questions)**

This page contains commonly asked questions for the Bonded Medical Places
(BMP) Scheme.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
32.|

 **[Bonded Medical Places Scheme 2015 or
earlier](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/BMP-2015)**

Information about the BMP Scheme for participants who joined in the Scheme in
2015 or earlier.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
33.|

 **[Bonded Medical Places Scheme 2016 –
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/BMP-2016)**

Information about the BMP Scheme for participants who joined between 2016 and
2018 and who are interested in joining in 2019.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
34.|

 **[Bonded Medical Places Scheme Return of Service Application Form - Part A
and Part B](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/bonded-medical-places-
scheme-return-service-form)**

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
35.|

 **[Case Studies](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/case-studies-speech-
pathology)**

What programmes or services can you access to assist with speech, language or
communication disorders? Find out more in the case studies below:

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
36.|

 **[Case Study - Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
People](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/case-study-2-aboriginal-torres-
strait-islander-people)**

This page contains information on Speech, Language and Communication Disorders
and Speech Pathology Services - Case Study - Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander People

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
37.|

 **[Case Study - Child with Learning
Difficulties](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/case-study-3-child-with-
learning-difficulties)**

This page contains information on Speech, Language and Communication Disorders
and Speech Pathology Services - Case Study - Child with learning difficulties

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
38.|

 **[Case Study - People living in regional and remote
areas](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/case-study-1-regional)**

This page contains information on Speech, Language and Communication Disorders
and Speech Pathology Services - Case Study - People living in regional and
remote areas

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
39.|

 **[Case Study - The Elderly](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/case-
study-4-the-elderly)**

This page contains information on Speech, Language and Communication Disorders
and Speech Pathology Services - Case Study - The Elderly

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
40.|

 **[Case Study - Veterans](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/case-
study-5-veteran)**

This page contains information on Speech, Language and Communication Disorders
and Speech Pathology Services - Case Study - Veterans

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
41.|

 **[Case Study: WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco
Control](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/international-engagement-case-
study)**

Australia’s participation internationally in the negotiation and
implementation of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) and
its associated instruments has helped to underpin our own world-leading
tobacco control measures at home.

|

  * [Research and development](portal-Research and development)
  * [Pandemic](portal-Pandemic)
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas](portal-Medical Treatment Overseas)
  * [Immunisation](portal-Immunisation)
  * [Emergency management](portal-Emergency management)
  * [Communicable diseases](portal-Communicable diseases)

  
42.|

 **[Cervical
Cancer](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Cervical+cancer+campaign-1)**

This program aims to reduce incidences and deaths from cervical cancer through
a more organised approach to cervical screening.

|

  * [Cancer](portal-Cancer)
  * [Women's health](portal-Women's health)

  
43.|

 **[Children of Parents with a Mental Illness](http://www.copmi.net.au)**

Promotes better mental health outcomes for children of parents with a mental
illness.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)
  * [Youth health](portal-Youth health)

  
44.|

 **[Clinical Trials](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Clinical-Trials)**

|

  * [Clinical Trials](portal-Clinical Trials)

  
45.|

 **[CMI, Privacy and your personal
information](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/CMI-Privacy)**

Australian Privacy Principle 5 Notification

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
46.|

 **[Commonwealth Medical
Internships](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-commonwealth-medical-
internships)**

This page contains Information on the Commonwealth Medical Internships (CMI)
initiative.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
47.|

 **[Commonwealth Medical Internships Programme
Guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-commonwealth-medical-
internships-programme-guidelines)**

This page contains Information on the Commonwealth Medical Internships (CMI)
Programme Guidelines

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
48.|

 **[Commonwealth Speech Pathology
Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/commonwealth-speech-pathology-
services)**

The Australian Government currently provides funding for a wide range of
services and programs to assist in the treatment of speech, language and
communication disorders including:

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
49.|

 **[Contact Information](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
medicalindemnity-contact.htm)**

This page provides contact information for enquiries about the Commonwealth
medical indemnity schemes.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
50.|

 **[Dental Training Expanding Rural Placements (DTERP) Operational
Framework](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-dterp-gui)**

This page contains the Operational Framework for the Dental Training -
Expanding Rural Placements program.

|

  * [Dental health](portal-Dental health)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
51.|

 **[District of Workforce Shortage
Factsheet](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-dws-fact)**

A District of Workforce Shortage (DWS) is a geographical area of Australia in
which the population's need for healthcare has not been met.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
52.|

 **[Emergency Triage Education
Kit](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/casemix-ED-
Triage+Review+Fact+Sheet+Documents)**

The Emergency Triage Education Kit (ETEK) provides a nationally consistent
approach to the educational preparation of emergency clinicians for the triage
role, and promotes the consistent application of the Australasian Triage Scale
(ATS).

|

  * [Hospitals](portal-Hospitals)

  
53.|

 **[Exceptional Claims Scheme (ECS) - and Allied Health Exceptional Claims
Scheme (AHECS) frequently asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-
ecs.htm)**

This page answers questions on the ECS from the viewpoint of medical
practitioners and allied health professionals (practitioners). The information
on this page has been updated to reflect changes to the medical indemnity
legislation commencing 1 July 2020.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
54.|

 **[Expert Review of Medicines and Medical Devices
Regulation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Expert-Review-of-Medicines-
and-Medical-Devices-Regulation)**

|

  * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](portal-Regulation and Red Tape Reduction)

  
55.|

 **[Framework convention on tobacco
control](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tobacco-xref-conv)**

A World Health Organization treaty to address the health, social,
environmental and economic consequences of tobacco consumption worldwide.

|

  * [Tobacco](portal-Tobacco)
  * [Drugs and substance abuse](portal-Drugs and substance abuse)

  
56.|

 **[General Practice Rural Incentives Program
(GPRIP)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/general_practice_rural_incentives_programme)**

The General Practice Rural Incentives Program transitioned to the Workforce
Incentive Program (WIP) – Doctor Stream on 1 January 2020.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
57.|

 **[General Practice Rural Incentives Program
Guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/general_practice_rural_incentives_programme-
programme-guidelines)**

The General Practice Rural Incentives Program aims to encourage medical
practitioners to practise in regional, rural and remote communities and to
promote careers in rural medicine through the provision of financial
incentives

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
58.|

 **[GP Super Clinics Programme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pacd-
gpsuperclinics)**

Information about the establishment of GP Super Clinics around the nation.

|

  * [GP Super Clinics](portal-GP Super Clinics)
  * [General practice](portal-General practice)
  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)

  
59.|

 **[Growing a smoke-free
story](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-innovation-grants-
qld)**

|  
60.|

 **[Growing the Smoke Free
Generation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-innovation-
grants-nt-ntdh)**

|  
61.|

 **[Guidelines for
Applicants](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/guidelinesMTO.htm)**

Guidelines for Applicants - Financial Assistance to Australian Residents
Requiring Medical Treatment Overseas. These guidelines are intended for
distribution to prospective applicants to the Medical Treatment Overseas
Program (MTOP) and their Australian treating specialist(s).

|

  * [Medical Treatment Overseas](portal-Medical Treatment Overseas)

  
62.|

 **[headspace (National Youth Mental Health
Foundation)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)**

Delivers improvements in the mental health, social wellbeing and economic
participation of young Australians aged 12-25.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)
  * [Youth health](portal-Youth health)

  
63.|

 **[High Cost Claims Scheme (HCCS) and Allied Health High Cost Claims Scheme
(AHHCCS) – frequently asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-
hccs.htm)**

This page answers questions on the HCCS from the viewpoint of medical
practitioners and allied health professionals (practitioners). The information
on this page has been updated to reflect changes to the medical indemnity
legislation commencing 1 July 2020.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
64.|

 **[Immunisation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-immunisation-
program)**

An Australian, State and Territory Government initiative, the Immunise
Australia Program aims to increase national immunisation rates.

|

  * [Immunisation](portal-Immunisation)
  * [Diseases and conditions](portal-Diseases and conditions)

  
65.|

 **[Immunoglobulin Review Pilot
Process](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ig-review-pilot-process)**

|

  * [Blood and Blood products](portal-Blood and Blood products)

  
66.|

 **[Improving safety at
'hotspots'](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-hotspots)**

A suicide hotspot is a specific site which is frequently used as a location
for suicide and which provides either the means or an opportunity for suicide.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
67.|

 **[Incurred-But-Not-Reported (IBNR) Indemnity Scheme – frequently asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/heath-medicalindemnity-faq-
ibnr)**

This page answers questions about the IBNR Scheme from a doctor’s point of
view.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
68.|

 **[Injury
Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Injury+Prevention-5)**

Injury Prevention and Control was endorsed as a National Priority Area by the
Australian Health Ministers in 1996 in recognition of the national burden of
injury.

|

  * [Injury prevention](portal-Injury prevention)

  
69.|

 **[Innovation grants in areas of high need (2016-2018) – Tackling Indigenous
Smoking (TIS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-
innovation-grants)**

Targeted innovation grants aim to expand the evidence base in Indigenous
tobacco control in areas of high need.

|  
70.|

 **[International Engagement - Our
objectives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/international-engagement-
our-objectives)**

The objectives that frame Health’s international engagement are inter-linked –
none can be achieved in isolation. Collectively, they position the Department
to align domestic and international agendas, address shared challenges with
valued partners, and provide Australian leadership where appropriate. Our
objectives are:

|

  * [Research and development](portal-Research and development)
  * [Pandemic](portal-Pandemic)
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas](portal-Medical Treatment Overseas)
  * [Immunisation](portal-Immunisation)
  * [Emergency management](portal-Emergency management)
  * [Communicable diseases](portal-Communicable diseases)

  
71.|

 **[International
Engagement](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/international-engagement)**

This page outlines the focus of the department’s international engagement.

|

  * [Research and development](portal-Research and development)
  * [Pandemic](portal-Pandemic)
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas](portal-Medical Treatment Overseas)
  * [Immunisation](portal-Immunisation)
  * [Emergency management](portal-Emergency management)
  * [Communicable diseases](portal-Communicable diseases)

  
72.|

 **[International Standards and Risk
Assessments](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/RPF-International-stds)**

This page contains content on the Industry Innovation and Competitiveness
Agenda’s International Standards and Risk Assessments.

|

  * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](portal-Regulation and Red Tape Reduction)

  
73.|

 **[John Flynn Placement Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-
pr-jfpp)**

The John Flynn Placement Program (JFPP) introduces medical students to life as
a rural doctor by offering them the opportunity to spend eight weeks over four
years in one small rural or remote community. Students work closely with rural
health professionals and are linked to a local person or organisation in the
community to assist with social and cultural experiences.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
74.|

 **[Junior Doctor Training Program Private Hospital
Stream](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-junior-doctor-training-
program-private-hospital-stream)**

This page contains information on the Junior Doctor Training Program – Private
Hospital Stream

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
75.|

 **[KidsMatter](http://www.kidsmatter.edu.au/)**

A mental health promotion, prevention and early intervention initiative for
children.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)
  * [Child health](portal-Child health)

  
76.|

 **[Lifetime Health Cover](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
privatehealth-lhc-providers-general.htm)**

Lifetime Health Cover is a Government initiative which was introduced on 1
July 2000, and designed to encourage people to take out hospital insurance
earlier in life, and to maintain their cover over their lifetime.

|

  * [Private Health Insurance](portal-Private Health Insurance)

  
77.|

 **[Maternity Services and Stillbirth
Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pacd-pdb-maternity)**

This webpage provides information on the Australian Government initiatives
that support Australia’s maternity services. This includes the National
Strategic Approach to Maternity Services, the Pregnancy Care Guidelines,
national maternal and perinatal data and the Pregnancy Birth and Baby service.
Information about the Government’s stillbirth prevention and support
initiatives are also included on this page.

|

  * [Maternal Health](portal-Maternal Health)
  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)
  * [Women's health](portal-Women's health)

  
78.|

 **[Medical and professional
indemnity](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-indemnity.htm)**

This section contains information about to the Australian Government’s
Indemnity Insurance Fund.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
79.|

 **[Medical Benefits Reviews Task
Group](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/MBRT-1)**

The Australian Government announced in the 2009-10 Budget that it would fund
the development of a new evidence-based framework for managing the MBS into
the future (the MBS Quality Framework) and carry out parallel reviews of
Diagnostic Imaging and Pathology.

|

  * [Medicare](portal-Medicare)

  
80.|

 **[Medical indemnity
legislation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-
legislation.htm)**

This page lists legislation affecting medical and professional indemnity (and
all underpinned regulations and determinations). The information on this page
has been updated to reflect changes to the medical indemnity legislation
commencing 1 July 2020.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
81.|

 **[Medical indemnity
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-
pubs.htm)**

This section provides links to publications related to the Australian
Government’s support for medical and professional indemnity insurance through
the Government’s Medical Indemnity Schemes.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
82.|

 **[Medical Rural Bonded Scholarship (MRBS) Scheme
2015](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-mrb)**

The Medical Rural Bonded Scholarship (MRBS) Scheme is an Australian Government
initiative designed to address doctor shortage outside metropolitan areas
across Australia.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
83.|

 **[Medical Rural Bonded Scholarship Scheme
2014](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-mrb)**

Scholarships for students who agree to practise in rural or remote areas of
Australia upon completion of basic medical and postgraduate training.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
84.|

 **[Medical Student CMI Application
Form](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-commonwealth-medical-
internships-application-form)**

This page contains Information on the 2018 medical student application form
for the Commonwealth Medical Internships

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
85.|

 **[Medical Treatment Overseas
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strategicpolicyMTO.htm)**

The Medical Treatment Overseas Program (MTOP) provides financial assistance
for Australians with a life-threatening medical condition to receive proven
life saving medical treatment overseas where effective treatment is not
available in Australia.

|

  * [Medical Treatment Overseas](portal-Medical Treatment Overseas)

  
86.|

 **[Men's
Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national+mens+health-1)**

Policies and initiatives to improve the health and wellbeing of all men in
Australia.

|

  * [Men's health](portal-Men's health)

  
87.|

 **[Mental Health Council of Australia](http://www.mhca.org.au/)**

The peak national non-government organisation representing and promoting the
interests of the Australian mental health sector.

|

  * [Councils](portal-Councils)
  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
88.|

 **[Mental health first aid training for front line community
workers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-firstaid)**

Mental health first aid training for front line community workers is part of
the 'Taking action to tackle suicide' package.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
89.|

 **[Mental Health in Multicultural Australia](http://www.mhima.org.au/)**

Provides a national focus for advice and support to providers and governments
on mental health and suicide prevention for people from culturally and
linguistically diverse (CALD) backgrounds.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Public awareness](portal-Public awareness)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
90.|

 **[Mental Health Nurse Incentive
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-mhnip)**

Provides a non-MBS incentive payment to organisations which engage mental
health nurses to assist in the provision of coordinated clinical care for
people with severe mental disorders.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)

  
91.|

 **[Mental Health Professionals Network](http://www.mhpn.org.au/ )**

Supports collaboration in Australia's primary mental health sector by
fostering local interdisciplinary networks of mental health professionals.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)

  
92.|

 **[Mindframe National Media
Initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-mindframe)**

The Mindframe National Media Initiative encourages responsible, accurate and
sensitive media representation of mental illness and suicide, and advocates on
behalf of community concerns relating to media depictions that stigmatise
mental illness or promote self-harm.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
93.|

 **[Mindmatters](http://www.mindmatters.edu.au/default.asp)**

A resource and professional development program to support Australian
secondary schools in promoting and protecting the social and emotional
wellbeing of members of school communities.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)
  * [Youth health](portal-Youth health)

  
94.|

 **[Multicultural mental health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-
multi)**

The Department of Health is committed to supporting the mental health and
wellbeing of culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) mental health
consumers, their families and carers. Most Australians will be directly or
indirectly touched by the impact of mental illness at some point in their
lives and for people of culturally diverse backgrounds this can involve many
extra challenges.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)

  
95.|

 **[National Cancer Screening Register
(NCSR)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Cancer-Screening-
Register)**

|

  * [Cancer](portal-Cancer)

  
96.|

 **[National Coordinator - Tackling Indigenous Smoking
(TIS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-coordinator)**

The TIS program is supported by the National Coordinator for Tackling
Indigenous Smoking, Professor Tom Calma, AO

|  
97.|

 **[National Eating Disorders
Collaboration](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-nedc)**

The National Eating Disorders Collaboration brings together eating disorder
stakeholders and experts in mental health, public health, health promotion,
education, and research, as well as the media to help develop a nationally
consistent approach to the prevention and management of eating disorders.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)

  
98.|

 **[National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing
Scheme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eb-dressing-1)**

Summary for National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme

|  
99.|

 **[National External Breast Prostheses Reimbursement
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/NEPPP-main)**

Information on the program and how to claim a reimbursement.

|  
100.|

 **[National Health Call Centre
Network](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-health-call-centre-
network-team-overview)**

The establishment of the National Health Call Centre Network is an initiative
of the Council of Australian Governments (COAG).

|

  * [Nursing](portal-Nursing)
  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
101.|

 **[National Key Performance Indicators for Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander primary health care
(nKPIs)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Key-Performance-
Indicators-for-Aboriginal-and-Torres-Strait-Islander-primary-health-care)**

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
102.|

 **[National Male and Women's
Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national+mens+&+womens+health-1)**

The Government has developed National Male and Women's Health Policies, to
ensure that specific health needs of both men and women are addressed.

|

  * [Men's health](portal-Men's health)
  * [Women's health](portal-Women's health)

  
103.|

 **[National mental health
strategy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-strat)**

The National mental health strategy is a commitment by Australian governments
to improve the lives of people with a mental illness.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)

  
104.|

 **[National Palliative Care
Projects](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/palliativecare-program.htm)**

The Australian Government funds a range of national palliative care projects
primarily focused on education, training, quality improvement and advance care
planning.

|

  * [Carers](portal-Carers)
  * [Research and development](portal-Research and development)
  * [Palliative care](portal-Palliative care)

  
105.|

 **[National Perinatal Depression
Initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-perinat)**

The National Perinatal Depression Initiative aims to improve prevention and
early detection of antenatal and postnatal depression and provide better
support and treatment for expectant and new mothers experiencing depression.
This initiative benefits women who are at risk of or experiencing depression
during pregnancy or in the first year following childbirth.

|

  * [Maternal Health](portal-Maternal Health)
  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Women's health](portal-Women's health)

  
106.|

 **[National Psychostimulants
Initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-npi-index)**

The National Psychostimulants Initiative (NPI) aimed to reduce harms and
prevent harms associated with psychostimulant use in the Australian community.

|

  * [Drugs and substance abuse](portal-Drugs and substance abuse)

  
107.|

 **[National Rural Health Students' Network](http://nrhsn.org.au)**

Represents Rural Health Clubs, whose members are medical, nursing and allied
health students at universities throughout Australia

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
108.|

 **[National Rural Locum Program
(NRLP)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-nrlp)**

The National Rural Locum Program was an element of the Rural Health Workforce
Strategy to improve rural and remote health workforce shortages.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
109.|

 **[National Women's Health
Policy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-womens-health-policy)**

The Government’s National Women’s Health Policy 2010 aims to continue to
improve the health and wellbeing of all women in Australia, especially those
at greatest risk for poor health.

|

  * [Women's health](portal-Women's health)

  
110.|

 **[National Women’s Health Strategy:
2020-2030](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-womens-health-
strategy-2020-2030)**

The National Women’s Health Strategy aims to improve the health and wellbeing
of all women and girls in Australia.

|

  * [Women's health](portal-Women's health)

  
111.|

 **[National Youth Mental Health Foundation
(headspace)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)**

Known as headspace, the foundation delivers improvements in the mental health,
social wellbeing and economic participation of young Australians aged 12-25.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)
  * [Youth health](portal-Youth health)

  
112.|

 **[Needle and Syringe
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Needle+and+Syringe+Program-1)**

The Needle and Syringe Program (NSP) supports increased education, counselling
and referral services provided through community based programs; and
diversification of NSPs to increase accessibility through pharmacies and other
outlets and provide information and training support.

|

  * [Drugs and substance abuse](portal-Drugs and substance abuse)

  
113.|

 **[New Horizons: The review of alcohol and other drug treatment services in
Australia](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/new-horizons)**

The Australian Government Department of Health commissioned a strategic, whole
of system review of the drug and alcohol treatment services sector that was
undertaken between July 2013 and July 2014.

|

  * [Drugs and substance abuse](portal-Drugs and substance abuse)

  
114.|

 **[New South Wales Speech Pathology
Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/nsw-speech-pathology-links)**

NSW health services offer a range of speech pathology services via local
health districts:

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
115.|

 **[nKPI and OSR Implementation
Roadmap](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/nKPI-and-OSR-Implementation-
Roadmap)**

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
116.|

 **[Northern Territory Speech Pathology
Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/northern-territory-speech-
pathology-links)**

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
117.|

 **[Nursing and Allied Health Scholarship and Support Scheme
(NAHSSS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-nahsss)**

The Nursing and Allied Health Scholarship and Support Scheme (NAHSSS) was a
2009-10 Budget measure that consolidates a range of existing nursing and
allied health scholarship programs to improve the consistency of program
design and delivery.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Nursing](portal-Nursing)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
118.|

 **[Nursing and Allied Health Scholarship and Support Scheme
(NAHSSS)](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-
pr-nahsss)**

The 2009-10 budget will consolidate a number of scholarship programs into one
scheme, the Nursing and Allied Health Scholarship Scheme (NAHSSS).

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Nursing](portal-Nursing)

  
119.|

 **[Opportunities to Reduce Regulation and Red
Tape](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/opportunities-to-reduce-
regulation-and-red-tape)**

|

  * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](portal-Regulation and Red Tape Reduction)

  
120.|

 **[Oral Health Therapist Graduate Year Program (OHTGYP) - Program
Guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-oral-health-therapist-
graduate-year-program-guidelines)**

This page contains the program guidelines for the Oral Health Therapist
Graduate Year Program (OHTGYP)

|

  * [Dental health](portal-Dental health)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
121.|

 **[Other supply arrangements outside the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)
– the Life Saving Drugs Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/lsdp-
info)**

|

  * [Pharmacy](portal-Pharmacy)
  * [Pharmaceutical benefits](portal-Pharmaceutical benefits)

  
122.|

 **[Overview of the Commonwealth Qualified Privilege
Scheme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/qps-overview)**

The Commonwealth Qualified Privilege Scheme encourages health professionals to
undertake quality assurance activities in connection with the provision of
certain health services.

|  
123.|

 **[Partners in Recovery: coordinated support and flexible funding for people
with severe and persistent mental illness with complex needs
(PIR)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-pir)**

PIR aims to support people with severe and persistent mental illness with
complex needs and their carers and families, by getting multiple sectors,
services and supports they may come into contact with (and could benefit from)
to work in a more collaborative, coordinated and integrated way.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)

  
124.|

 **[Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Growth Hormone
Program](http://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/section100-gh)**

Information about the Growth Hormone Program

|

  * [Hormones](portal-Hormones)
  * [Pharmaceutical benefits](portal-Pharmaceutical benefits)

  
125.|

 **[Pituitary Hormone
Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pituitary+Hormone+Initiatives-1)**

This page contains information on the relation between human pituitary hormone
treatment and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) as well as Government's
initiatives for the control and prevention of CJD.

|

  * [Diseases and conditions](portal-Diseases and conditions)
  * [Communicable diseases](portal-Communicable diseases)

  
126.|

 **[Pituitary hormones
initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-phi-
index.htm)**

This page contains information on the relation between human pituitary hormone
treatment and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) as well as Government's
initiatives for the control and prevention of CJD.

|

  * [Hormones](portal-Hormones)

  
127.|

 **[Plasma Fractionation Review](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/plasma-
fractionation.htm)**

Australia’s plasma fractionation arrangements were reviewed in 2006, in line
with commitments under the Australia-United States Free Trade Agreement
(AUSFTA). The purpose of the review was to provide governments with a solid
basis to make an informed decision on future arrangements. Further information
about the review can be accessed from this page.

|

  * [Blood and Blood products](portal-Blood and Blood products)

  
128.|

 **[Pregnancy Care
Guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pregnancycareguidelines)**

|

  * [Maternal Health](portal-Maternal Health)
  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)

  
129.|

 **[Pregnancy counselling](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pregnancy-
Counselling-1)**

Support for women and their partners and families in making informed decisions
about pregnancy-related issues.

|

  * [Maternal Health](portal-Maternal Health)
  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)
  * [Women's health](portal-Women's health)

  
130.|

 **[Pregnancy, Birth and Baby
helpline](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-pregnancy-helpline)**

Free, confidential, professional information and counselling for women, their
partners and families relating to issues of conception, pregnancy, birthing
and postnatal care.

|

  * [Maternal Health](portal-Maternal Health)
  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)
  * [Women's health](portal-Women's health)

  
131.|

 **[Premium Support Scheme (PSS) - frequently asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-
pss.htm)**

This page provides an overview of the PSS and displays answers to questions on
the PSS from the viewpoint of medical practitioners. The information on this
page has been updated to reflect changes to the medical indemnity legislation
commencing 1 July 2020.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
132.|

 **[Prevocational General Practice Placements
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-pgppp)**

The Prevocational General Practice Placements Program (PGPPP) is a
prevocational training program that enhances junior doctors' understanding of
primary health care and encourages them to take up general practice as a
career.

|

  * [General practice](portal-General practice)
  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
133.|

 **[Prevocational General Practice Placements
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-xref-pgppp)**

Encourages junior doctors to take up general practice as a career by funding
placements in outer metropolitan, regional, rural and remote areas, and other
areas of medical service need.

|

  * [General practice](portal-General practice)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
134.|

 **[Primary Health Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-
primary-health-care-lp)**

Primary health care funding provides support to health organisations to
provide primary health care services to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people.

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
135.|

 **[Primary Health Care Research, Evaluation and Development (PHCRED)
Strategy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pcd-programs-phcred)**

The PHCRED Strategy builds the primary health care research capacity and
evidence base, in order to improve health outcomes through better primary
health care systems, services and practices.

|

  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)
  * [Research and development](portal-Research and development)

  
136.|

 **[Primary Health Network (PHN) After Hours Evaluation
Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phn-after-hours-reports)**

These reports are an evaluation of the PHN After Hours Program.

|

  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)

  
137.|

 **[Primary Health Networks
(PHNs)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primary_Health_Networks)**

Primary Health Networks (PHNs) have been established with the key objectives
of increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of medical services for
patients, particularly those at risk of poor health outcomes, and improving
coordination of care to ensure patients receive the right care in the right
place at the right time.

|

  * [Primary health care](portal-Primary health care)

  
138.|

 **[Primary Mental Health Care Services Activities Grant Programme
Guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-pmhcsa-guidelines)**

These Guidelines provide an overview of the arrangements for the delivery of
Primary Mental Health Care Services Activities.

|

  * [General practice](portal-General practice)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
139.|

 **[Program Evaluation and Monitoring - Tackling Indigenous Smoking
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-target)**

The overall Program Evaluation is being used to assess the program’s
appropriateness, effectiveness, impact, and efficiency, and to inform best
practice learning and continuous program improvement.

|  
140.|

 **[Programme of Assistance for Survivors of Torture and
Trauma](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-torture)**

The Programme of Assistance for Survivors of Torture and Trauma (PASTT)
provides specialised support services to permanently resettled humanitarian
entrants and those on temporary substantive visa products living in the
community who are experiencing psychological or psychosocial difficulties
associated with surviving torture and trauma before coming to Australia.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
141.|

 **[Puggy Hunter Memorial Scholarship
Scheme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-xref-phmss)**

Provides financial assistance to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
to undertake undergraduate health professional training.

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
142.|

 **[Quality Assurance for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Medical
Services (QAAMS) Pathology
programme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pathology-qaams-
index.htm)**

Details of Quality Assurance for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Medical
Services (QAAMS) Pathology programme and Australian Government's Support to
this programme

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)
  * [Pathology](portal-Pathology)

  
143.|

 **[Queensland Speech Pathology
Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/queensland-speech-pathology-
links)**

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
144.|

 **[Quitline Enhancements and Brief Intervention Training - Tackling
Indigenous Smoking (TIS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-
tis-quitline)**

Quitline enhancements and brief intervention training are aimed at supporting
Quitlines, frontline health and community workers to better help Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander smokers to quit.

|  
145.|

 **[Recovery of Course-Funding Amount for 2015 and
Previously](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-bmp-recovery-course-
funding-amount)**

This page provides information about the recovery of course funding amount by
year for the BMP Scheme for 2015 and previously.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
146.|

 **[Remote Vocational Training
Scheme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-xref-rvts)**

Provides distance education and supervision for medical practitioners without
postgraduate qualifications in remote communities.

|

  * [General practice](portal-General practice)
  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
147.|

 **[Remuneration and claims system for approved pharmacists and approved
hospital authorities supplying under the Remote Area Aboriginal Health
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-
remuneration)**

The Australian Government reimburses approved pharmacies and hospital
authorities under the s100 Remote Area Aboriginal Health Services (RAAHS)
Program for pharmaceutical benefits supplied to approved Aboriginal Health
Services in remote locations.

|

  * [Pharmaceutical benefits](portal-Pharmaceutical benefits)
  * [Pharmacy](portal-Pharmacy)

  
148.|

 **[Reporting](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Dereg-reporting)**

|

  * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](portal-Regulation and Red Tape Reduction)

  
149.|

 **[Response - Roundtable Forum on Burns
Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-response-round-table-
forum-on-burns-prevention.htm)**

Australian Government Response to the House of Representatives Standing
Committee on Health and Ageing report.

|

  * [Injury prevention](portal-Injury prevention)

  
150.|

 **[ResponseAbility
Education](http://www.responseability.org/site/index.cfm?display=21924)**

Provides information to support use of the Response Ability multi-media
packages in Australian universities and tertiary colleges, in the fields of
education and journalism.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
151.|

 **[Review of the National Rural Locum Program - Final
Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-rnrlp)**

This page contains information on the Review of the National Rural Locum
Program - Final Report

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
152.|

 **[Royal Flying Doctor Service (RFDS)
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/royal-flying-doctor-service-
programme)**

The Government has funded the RFDS since the 1930’s to deliver the RFDS
Program, which includes provision of emergency aeromedical evacuation services
in rural and remote Australia.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
153.|

 **[Run Off-Cover Scheme (ROCS) - frequently asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-
rocs.htm)**

This page answers questions on the operation of ROCS from the viewpoint of
doctors.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
154.|

 **[Rural Australia Medical Undergraduate Scholarship
(RAMUS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-ramus)**

The Rural Australia Medical Undergraduate Scholarship (RAMUS) scheme provides
scholarships to medical students from a rural background who have a
demonstrated financial need and commitment to rural practice.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
155.|

 **[Rural Health Continuing Education Sub-
program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-rhce)**

This sub-progam consolidates funding from a number of other programs into a
single program to support medical specialists in rural and remote areas.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
156.|

 **[Rural Health Multidisciplinary Training (RHMT)
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/rural-health-multidisciplinary-
training)**

Supporting high quality rural health training is a way for the Australian
Government to make a measurable impact on addressing the maldistribution of
the rural health workforce.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)
  * [Dental health](portal-Dental health)

  
157.|

 **[Rural Locum Assistance Program (Rural
LAP)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/rural-locum-assistance-program)**

The Rural LAP consolidates three separate schemes, these schemes are: the
Nursing and Allied Health Rural Locum Scheme (NAHRLS), the Rural Obstetric and
Anaesthetic Locum Scheme (ROALS) and the Rural Locum Education Assistance
Program (Rural LEAP).

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Nursing](portal-Nursing)
  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)

  
158.|

 **[Rural Other Medical Practitioners (ROMPs)
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-romps)**

The ROMPS program provides access to higher Medicare rebates to non-
vocationally recognised medical practitioners providing general practice
services in eligible rural and remote areas.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
159.|

 **[Rural Pharmacy Scholarship Scheme
(RPSS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-rpss)**

Scholarships to assist students from rural and remote areas to undertake
undergraduate or graduate studies in pharmacy at university.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
160.|

 **[Rural Pharmacy Workforce
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-rpwp)**

The Rural Pharmacy Workforce Program comprises various initiatives, including
undergraduate and postgraduate scholarships and an emergency locum scheme,
designed to recruit, train and retain pharmacists in rural and remote areas.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
161.|

 **[Rural Procedural Grants
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-rpgp)**

The Rural Procedural Grants Program (RPGP) commenced in 2004. It supports
procedural GPs in rural and remote areas to attend relevant continuing
professional development (CPD) activities, focused on both skills maintenance
and upskilling.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
162.|

 **[Smoking Nutrition, Alcohol and Physical Activity
'SNAP'](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-innovation-
grants-nsw)**

|  
163.|

 **[South Australia Speech Pathology
Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/south-australia-speech-pathology-
links)**

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
164.|

 **[Specialist College Presidents and CEOs Contact
Details](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-spec-specialist-college-
presidents-ceos-contact-details)**

This page shows Specialist College presidents and CEOs contact details.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
165.|

 **[Specialist Training Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-
spec)**

The Specialist Training Program (STP) seeks to extend vocational training for
specialist registrars into settings outside traditional metropolitan teaching
hospitals, including regional, rural and remote and private facilities. The
program aims to improve the quality of the future specialist workforce by
providing registrars with exposure to a broader range of healthcare settings.
STP also aims to have a positive influence on future workforce distribution.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
166.|

 **[Specialist Training Program
(STP)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-xref-spec)**

The Specialist Training Program provides support to enable medical specialist
trainees to rotate through an expanded range of settings beyond traditional
public teaching hospitals.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
167.|

 **[Specialist Training Program Colleges
Websites](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/specialist-training-program-
colleges-websites)**

This page shows specialist college websites.

|

  * [Health personnel](portal-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
168.|

 **[Speech, Language and Communication Disorders, Difficulties and Speech
Pathology Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/speech-pathology)**

This landing page is a digital starting point for concerned individuals,
parents and carers to locate services and support for people with different
types of speech, language and communication difficulties. Services are
provided by the Australian Government, State and Territory Governments, peak
bodies and private organisations.

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
169.|

 **[Stronger Rural Health Strategy - Medicare Benefits Schedule updates -
Q&As](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/stronger-rural-health-strategy-
medicare-benefits-schedule-updates)**

As part of the Stronger Rural Health Strategy announced in the 2018-19 Budget,
the Government is reforming Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) item fee
arrangements for non-vocationally recognised general practitioners (non-VR
GPs).

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)

  
170.|

 **[Summary of the Medical Indemnity Reform commencing 1 July
2020](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/summary-of-the-medical-indemnity-
reform-commencing-1-July-2020)**

This page provides a summary of the legislative changes to the medical
indemnity legislation and schemes.

|  
171.|

 **[Support for Day to Day Living in the
Community](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-d2dl)**

The "Support for Day to Day Living in the Community (D2DL): a structured
activity program" provides funding to improve the quality of life for
individuals with severe and persistent mental illness by offering structured
and socially based activities. The initiative recognises that meaningful
activity and social connectedness are important factors that can contribute to
people's recovery.

|

  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)
  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)

  
172.|

 **[Supporting Leave for Living Organ Donor
Programme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/supporting-leave-for-living-
organ-donor-programme)**

|  
173.|

 **[Supporting Living Organ Donors
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Leave-for-living-organ-
donors)**

Information about support for living organ donors

|

  * [Organ and tissue donation](portal-Organ and tissue donation)

  
174.|

 **[Tackling Indigenous Smoking (TIS) -
Contacts](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-contacts)**

For queries on the TIS program.

|  
175.|

 **[Tackling Indigenous Smoking (TIS) - National
Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-statistics)**

Tackling Indigenous Smoking National Statistics outlines recent data on
smoking and its impacts for the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
population.

|  
176.|

 **[Tackling Indigenous Smoking (TIS) - Regional Tobacco Control Grants
(2015-2018)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-grants)**

The Tackling Indigenous Smoking Regional Tobacco Control Grants are aimed at
improving the health of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people through a
variety of population health activities to reduce tobacco use.

|  
177.|

 **[Tackling Indigenous Smoking (TIS) - Useful
Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-links)**

A sample of information and evidence on Indigenous and non-Indigenous tobacco
control.

|  
178.|

 **[Tackling Indigenous Smoking
(TIS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-lp)**

The Tackling Indigenous Smoking programme is a targeted activity funded by the
Australian Government to reduce smoking rates among Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people.

|  
179.|

 **[Tackling Indigenous Smoking Innovation Grant
Project](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-innovation-
grants-wa)**

|  
180.|

 **[Tasmania Speech Pathology
Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tasmania-speech-pathology-
links)**

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
181.|

 **[Teleweb](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-teleweb)**

Teleweb (the Telephone Counselling, Self Help and Web-based Support Programmes
measure) provides evidence-based telephone and online mental health programmes
for individuals with common mental health disorders and those in psychosocial
crisis.

|

  * [Mental health](portal-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](portal-Suicide prevention)

  
182.|

 **[The Balaang and Binjilaang Aboriginal Women Tobacco Intervention
Project](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-innovation-
grants-nsw-sc)**

|  
183.|

 **[The Child Dental Benefits
Schedule](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/childdental)**

The Child Dental Benefits Schedule (CDBS) is a dental benefits program for
eligible children aged 0-17. It provides up to $1026 in benefits to the child
over a 2 year calendar period that can be used to pay for check-ups, fillings
and other basic dental services.

|

  * [Dental health](portal-Dental health)

  
184.|

 **[The Commonwealth Medical Indemnity
schemes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medicalindemnity-iifs)**

This section provides an overview of the Commonwealth medical indemnity
schemes for eligible private medical practitioners, allied health
professionals, and eligible midwives in private practice.

|

  * [Professional indemnity](portal-Professional indemnity)

  
185.|

 **[The Food Regulation
Secretariat](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/foodsecretariat-1)**

|

  * [Food standards](portal-Food standards)
  * [Nutrition](portal-Nutrition)

  
186.|

 **[The Health Ministerial Advisory Council (Health MAC) - ended 31 March
2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/the-health-ministerial-advisory-
council)**

|

  * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](portal-Regulation and Red Tape Reduction)

  
187.|

 **[The Indigenous Australians’ Health
Programme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-programme-lp)**

The Australian Government Department of Health is committed to the delivery of
high quality, comprehensive and culturally appropriate essential health
services for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](portal-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
188.|

 **[The National Best Practice Unit (NBPU) for Tackling Indigenous Smoking
(TIS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-nbpu)**

The NBPU supports the implementation and ongoing delivery of the TIS program
nationally.

|  
189.|

 **[The Practice Nurse Incentive Program
(PNIP)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pnip)**

The Practice Nurse Incentive Program (PNIP) was introduced in 2012 and
provides incentive payments to practices to support an expanded and enhanced
role for nurses working in general practice.

|

  * [Health workforce](portal-Health workforce)
  * [Nursing](portal-Nursing)

  
190.|

 **[The Regulator Performance
Framework](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/RPF-and-
International+Standards)**

The Government introduced the Regulator Performance Framework (the Framework)
to improve regulatory performance and reduce unnecessary regulatory costs that
inhibit productivity.

|

  * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](portal-Regulation and Red Tape Reduction)

  
191.|

 **[The Regulatory Reform Unit at
Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/the-health-deregulation-unit)**

|

  * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](portal-Regulation and Red Tape Reduction)

  
192.|

 **[The Study of Patient Pathways in Alcohol and Other Drug
Treatment](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/study-of-patient-pathways-in-
alcohol-and-other-drug-treatment)**

The Patient Pathways study was commissioned to analyse patient journeys
through the drug and alcohol treatment service system.

|

  * [Drugs and substance abuse](portal-Drugs and substance abuse)

  
193.|

 **[The Top End Smoke-Free Spaces
Project](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-tis-innovation-
grants-nt)**

|  
194.|

 **[Tobacco](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tobacco-xref)**

Policy and programs to improve the health of all Australians by eliminating or
reducing their exposure to tobacco in all its forms.

|

  * [Tobacco](portal-Tobacco)
  * [Drugs and substance abuse](portal-Drugs and substance abuse)

  
195.|

 **[Universal Cover
Obligations](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/universal-cover-
obligations+)**

This page provides information on the requirements of universal cover
obligations for medical indemnity insurers, and information for medical
practitioners should a dispute arise between an insurer and a medical
practitioner in relation to the universal cover arrangements.

|  
196.|

 **[Useful Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
medicalindemnity-links.htm)**

This page provides useful links for the Australian Government’s medical
indemnity package.

|

  * [Medical indemnity](portal-Medical indemnity)

  
197.|

 **[Victoria Speech Pathology
Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/victoria-speech-pathology-
links)**

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
198.|

 **[Visiting Optometrists
Scheme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ruralhealth-vos)**

The Visiting Optometrists Scheme (VOS) supports optometrists to deliver
outreach optometric services to remote and very remote locations, and rural
communities with an identified need for optometric services.

|

  * [Rural health services](portal-Rural health services)
  * [Eye health](portal-Eye health)

  
199.|

 **[Western Australia Speech Pathology
Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/western-australia-speech-
pathology-links)**

Speech Pathology and supporting services information can be found at the
following websites:

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
200.|

 **[What are Speech and Language Disorders and Difficulties? Why is it
Important to Seek Help?](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/what-are-
speech-and-language-disorders)**

|

  * [Speech Pathology](portal-Speech Pathology)

  
201.|

 **[Which biosimilar medicines are available in
Australia?](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/biosimilar-which-medicines-
are-available-in-australia)**

|  
202.|

 **[Women's
Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national+womens+health-1)**

Policies to improve the health and wellbeing of women and girls in Australia

|

  * [Women's health](portal-Women's health)

  
  
### In this section

  * [ __Medical Rural Bonded Scholarship Scheme 2014](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-mrb)
  * [ __National Rural Health Students' Network](http://nrhsn.org.au)
  * [ __Nursing and Allied Health Scholarship and Support Scheme (NAHSSS)](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-nahsss)
  * [ __Alcohol](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-drugs-alcohol-index.htm)
  * [ __Children of Parents with a Mental Illness](http://www.copmi.net.au)
  * [ __headspace (National Youth Mental Health Foundation)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)
  * [ __KidsMatter](http://www.kidsmatter.edu.au/)
  * [ __Living is for everyone (LiFE)](http://www.livingisforeveryone.com.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health Council of Australia](http://www.mhca.org.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health in Multicultural Australia](http://www.mhima.org.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health Nurse Incentive Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-mhnip)
  * [ __Mental Health Professionals Network](http://www.mhpn.org.au/ )
  * [ __Mindmatters](http://www.mindmatters.edu.au/default.asp)
  * [ __National Youth Mental Health Foundation (headspace)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
  *  **[ __Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-all)**
  * [ __ResponseAbility Education](http://www.responseability.org/site/index.cfm?display=21924)
  * [ __Ban on the use of animal test data for cosmetics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ban-cosmetic-testing-animals)
  * [ __Health Policy Research and Data Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health_Policy_Research_and_Data_Program)
  * [ __Overview](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-nurse)
  * [ __Packer Policy Fellowship Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/packer-policy-fellows)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Growth Hormone Program](http://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/section100-gh)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme Collection of Under Co-payment Data](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pbs-under-copayment-data)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives - Results](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-results)
  * [ __Review of the eligibility of retirement visa holders for Medicare under relevant reciprocal health care agreements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/retirement-visa-holders)
  * [ __The Australian-American Health Policy Fellowship](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Australian-American-Health-Policy-Fellowship)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fprograms-
initiatives-all "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
  * [Biosimilar Awareness Initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/biosimilar-awareness-initiative)
  * [Casemix](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-casemix-data-collections-about-HCP)
  * [Folate](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-folate-index.htm)
  * [Living Organ Donation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Leave-for-living-organ-donors)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **third** and **last** digits of 421470

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

