Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1) /
  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu) /

# Collaborative Arrangements for Participating Midwives and Nurse
Practitioners

Fact Sheet

 __Page last updated: 03 October 2012

Printable version of [Collaborative Arrangements (PDF 31
KB)](6BA6089D02F1E2DACA257BF000204422/$File/collaborative.pdf)  
  

## What is a collaborative arrangement?

A collaborative arrangement is an arrangement between an eligible
midwife/eligible nurse practitioner with a medical practitioner that must
provide for:

  * consultation with a specified medical practitioner; 
  * referral of a patient to a specified medical practitioner; and 
  * transfer of the patient’s care to a specified medical practitioner, as clinically relevant, to ensure safe, high quality health care.

## How can I demonstrate a collaborative arrangement?

Collaborative arrangement can be demonstrated by:

  1. being employed or engaged by a medical practitioner or an entity that provides medical services; OR 
  2. receiving patients on written referral from a medical practitioner; OR 
  3. a signed written agreement with a specified medical practitioner/s; OR 
  4. an arrangement in the midwife’s or nurse practitioner’s written records.

## Who can I have a collaborative arrangement with?

A collaborative arrangement for a participating midwife can be with the
following specified medical practitioners:

  * An obstetrician; 
  * A medical practitioner who provides obstetric services; or 
  * A medical practitioner employed or engaged by a hospital authority and authorised by the hospital authority to participate in a collaborative arrangement.

A collaborative arrangement for a participating nurse practitioner can be with
all kinds of medical practitioners.  
  

## Where can I find more information about collaborative arrangements?

The legislation regarding collaborative arrangements includes:

  * The _National Health (Collaborative arrangements for midwives) Determination 2010_ , 
  * The _National Health (Collaborative arrangements for nurse practitioners) Determination 2010_ , and 
  * The _Health Insurance Amendment Regulations 2010 (No. 1)_.

These documents can be found on the [Commonwealth of Australia Law
website](http://www.frli.gov.au/comlaw/comlaw.nsf/sh/homepage).  
  
Further information on the Medicare items in support of midwife and nurse
practitioner services is available from Medicare Australia on 132 150 (for
providers) or 132 011 (for patients); by emailing [MBS
Online](mailto:mbsonline@health.gov.au); or by telephoning the DoHA helpline
on 1300 672 507 or  
visit the [Health website](http://www.health.gov.au/midwives-nurse-
practitioners).

### In this section

  * [ __Medical Rural Bonded Scholarship Scheme 2014](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-mrb)
  * [ __National Rural Health Students' Network](http://nrhsn.org.au)
  * [ __Nursing and Allied Health Scholarship and Support Scheme (NAHSSS)](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-nahsss)
  * [ __Alcohol](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-drugs-alcohol-index.htm)
  * [ __Children of Parents with a Mental Illness](http://www.copmi.net.au)
  * [ __headspace (National Youth Mental Health Foundation)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)
  * [ __KidsMatter](http://www.kidsmatter.edu.au/)
  * [ __Living is for everyone (LiFE)](http://www.livingisforeveryone.com.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health Council of Australia](http://www.mhca.org.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health in Multicultural Australia](http://www.mhima.org.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health Nurse Incentive Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-mhnip)
  * [ __Mental Health Professionals Network](http://www.mhpn.org.au/ )
  * [ __Mindmatters](http://www.mindmatters.edu.au/default.asp)
  * [ __National Youth Mental Health Foundation (headspace)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-all)
  * [ __ResponseAbility Education](http://www.responseability.org/site/index.cfm?display=21924)
  * [ __Ban on the use of animal test data for cosmetics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ban-cosmetic-testing-animals)
  * [ __Health Policy Research and Data Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health_Policy_Research_and_Data_Program)
  * [ __Overview](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-nurse)
  * [ __Packer Policy Fellowship Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/packer-policy-fellows)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Growth Hormone Program](http://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/section100-gh)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme Collection of Under Co-payment Data](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pbs-under-copayment-data)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives - Results](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-results)
  * [ __Review of the eligibility of retirement visa holders for Medicare under relevant reciprocal health care agreements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/retirement-visa-holders)
  * [ __The Australian-American Health Policy Fellowship](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Australian-American-Health-Policy-Fellowship)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fmidwives-
nurse-pract-collaborative-arrangements "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker
webReader")

  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
  * [Biosimilar Awareness Initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/biosimilar-awareness-initiative)
  * [Casemix](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-casemix-data-collections-about-HCP)
  * [Folate](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-folate-index.htm)
  * [Living Organ Donation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Leave-for-living-organ-donors)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **third** and **last** digits of 181079

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

