Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro) /
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care) /

# Health assessment for refugees and other humanitarian entrants into
Australia

Question and Answers

 __Page last updated: 17 April 2014

[Printable version of fact sheet (PDF 296
KB)](060C439A4465D2C5CA257BF0001A955D/$File/Final%20Questions%20Answers_Medicare%20Health%20Assessment%20for%20Refugees%20and%20other%20humanitarian%20entrants%2015%20April%202014.PDF)

## What is the purpose of this health assessment?

The purpose of the assessment is to develop a detailed history and undertake a
physical examination of the patient to identify immediate and long term health
care needs and to initiate treatment. Patients can also be introduced to
preventative health care in Australia, in particular immunisation, maternal
and child health care and breast and cervical screening.

## How can a patient be identified as eligible for a refugee and other
humanitarian entrants health assessment?

This health assessment is a voluntary service and applies to refugees and
other humanitarian entrants who are resident in Australia with access to
Medicare services.

If the patient comes from a country which has a history of conflict and human
rights violations, eg Sudan, Burma, Iraq, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, they are
likely to be from a refugee background. A country of asylum or transit, eg.
Kenya, Jordan, Pakistan or Thailand can also suggest a refugee background.
Patients from refugee backgrounds can also be identified by their visa number
which indicates the category of Australia’s Humanitarian program under which
they arrived – see fact sheet for visa details.

This information may also be provided by the settlement service if they refer
the patient to the GP.

## What proof is there that a patient is a humanitarian entrant and eligible
for a health assessment?

A humanitarian entrant should be able to provide proof of their visa status
and date of arrival or residence (date of visa grant). Doctors can check that
a patient holds an eligible visa in one of the following documents:

  * A travel card known as a Document for Travel to Australia (DFTTA); 
  * A travel document including a Passport, a Titre de Voyage or a Certificate of Identity; 
  * A Visa Evidence Card identified by the numbers PLO56 or M56 at the bottom of the card or 
  * A Permanent Resident Evidence ImmiCard

The date of entry to Australia is stamped in the patient’s travel document or
card. The date of visa grant for Protection visas is printed on the visa
label. Doctors may telephone Medicare Australia on 132 011, with the patient
present (with their Medicare card), to check whether the patient is eligible
for this health assessment.  

## What medical records do refugees and other humanitarian entrants have on
them when they arrive in Australia?

Most refugees arrive in Australia with medical records provided at a departure
health check. The Health Manifest which includes personal and health
information and the Pre Departure Results form are provided to refugee and
humanitarian entrants and the HSS settlement service provider. Doctors should
ask refugee or humanitarian patients if they have brought medical documents
with them at the consultation.  

## What health checks are undertaken offshore?

Visa medical examination: All refugee and humanitarian entrants undergo a
medical examination, chest x-ray, HIV and syphilis testing with a medical
doctor approved by the Department of Immigration and Border Protection during
the visa application process. This examination determines if they have any
diseases or conditions which would represent a threat to public health, be a
significant cost to the public health system or prejudice the access of
Australian citizens to health care services. For more information see
Department of Immigration and Border Protection (DIBP) Fact Sheet 22, [The
Health Requirement](http://www.immi.gov.au/media/fact-sheets/22health.htm).

Departure Health Check (DHC): The primary purpose of the DHC is to determine
fitness to fly and provide pre-departure interventions and is undertaken
within 72 hours of departure. This consists of a symptom review, second-dose
MMR vaccination and empirical treatment of parasites. Rapid diagnostic testing
or malaria is also offered in malaria-endemic locations, with treatment
provided to those found to be positive. Chest x-rays are undertaken for
persons known to have past TB history or finding, or persons who present with
clinical signs of TB at time of departure.  

## What is a Health Undertaking?

As part of the visa medical assessment, a refugee may be required to sign a
Health Undertaking where they have been found to have specific health issues
such as hepatitis or inactive tuberculosis that need follow-up and monitoring
in Australia. By signing the Health Undertaking, the refugee agrees to report
to the Health Undertaking Service and follow-up with their respective State or
Territory health authority. Doctors should ask patients if they have a Health
Undertaking. See [DIBP Form 815](http://www.immi.gov.au/allforms/pdf/815.pdf).  
  
Some pregnant refugees may be placed on a Pregnancy Health Undertaking (DIBP
Form 1392) as the Australian government does not recommend pregnant women
undertaking a chest x-ray while pregnant.  

## What is a Red or General Alert?

Red or general alerts ensure entrants granted a visa but identified with
significant medical conditions are provided with suitable medical attention
during travel and upon arrival in Australia. [Refugee Health
Network](http://refugeehealthnetwork.org.au/wp-
content/uploads/Red+and+General+Health+Alerts1.pdf).  

## What interpreting services are available to doctors and patients?

Free interpreting services are available to eligible medical practitioners
providing Medicare-rebateable services in private practice to patients who are
Australian citizens or permanent residents and who do not speak English. The
Department of Social Services (DSS) through the Translating and Interpreting
Service (TIS National) provides the following free interpreting services:

  * The Doctors Priority Line (DPL), a free phone interpreting service available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Calls to the DPL are given preference over other calls to TIS National. 
  * on-site interpreting service during business hours (8am to 6pm), Medical practitioners registered with TIS National pre-book on-site interpreting on the TIS National website.[](mailto:tis@immi.gov.au)

Eligible Medical practitioners can register for the Free Interpreting Service
on the TIS National website. For more information please visit the [DSS
website](http://www.dss.gov.au) or call the TIS National Language policy
liaison team on 1300 575 847 or email [TIS Language Policy
Liaison](mailto:tis.language.policy.liaison@immi.gov.au).  
  
The Department of Social Services also provides a Free Translating Service to
permanent residents and Australian citizens within their first two years of
arrival in Australia. Documents that can be translated into English include
patient medical reports or vaccinations certificates. More information about
this service is available on the DSS website.  

## Does the health assessment need to be completed in a single consultation?

No. The assessment may be conducted over more than one consultation to ensure
all elements of the assessment, including investigations, results and
management plan can be undertaken. The GP claims only after the final session.
In this situation, doctors should add the time taken in each consultation to
determine which time-based MBS health assessment item applies.  

## Are patients eligible for other types of health assessment?

Only one refugee and other humanitarian entrant health assessment can be
undertaken per patient within 12 months of arrival or grant of visa. If
clinically indicated and with patient consent, other health assessments may be
undertaken eg. a type 2 diabetes risk evaluation.  

## What tests are eligible for a Medicare rebate?

Medicare pays for clinically relevant services. This means services that are
generally accepted by the medical profession as being necessary for the
appropriate treatment of the patient and which are listed in the MBS.  

## Can the GP order pathology tests if there is no consultation item claimed
for that day?

Yes.  

## Does Medicare have rules in regard to follow-up testing?

The principle of ‘clinical relevance’ applies to repeat pathology services.  

## What settlement support is available for new arrival refugees?

The Department of Social Services provides intensive settlement services
through Humanitarian Settlement Strategy (HSS) to new arrivals holding visa
class subclass 200, 201, 203 and, 204. Services are generally provided for 6
months but may be extended for vulnerable clients. They include:

    * on-arrival reception and initial orientation 
    * information about and referral to other service providers and mainstream agencies 
    * assistance with accommodation and basic household goods 
    * short term torture and trauma counselling (12 months)

## Who is a proposer?

A proposer is a friend, relative or community organisation who has agreed to
assist the person to settle in Australia. Proposers only apply to visa class
202, Global Special Humanitarian. Any proposer who accompanies a patient may
be able to provide useful information about the patient on matters such as
physical, psychological and social function but should not be used as an
interpreter.

### In this section

  * [ __Autism — Helping Children with Autism program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/autism-children)
  * [ __Disability — Better Start for Children with Disability initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/children_disability)
  * [ __Pregnancy support counselling](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pcd-pregnancy-support.htm)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fmbsprimarycare_mbsitem_refugees_qanda
"Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
  * [Claiming from Medicare](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/dhs/medicare)
  * [Diagnostic imaging under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/diagnosticimaging-aboutus.htm)
  * [e-Health records Medicare data](http://www.ehealth.gov.au/internet/ehealth/publishing.nsf/content/home)
  * [Medicare safety net arrangements 1973 to 2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/EMSN_Landing_Page)
  * [Legislation](http://www.legislation.gov.au/)
  * [MBS Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Services Advisory Committee](http://www.msac.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strategicpolicyMTO.htm)
  * [Pathology under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pathology-aboutus-index.htm)
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_ATSI_mbsha_resource_kit)
  * [Radiation therapy under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-roi-aboutus.htm)
  * [Statistics under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicare+Statistics-1)
  * [Specialist video consultations under Medicare](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsonline-telehealth-landing.htm)
  * [Your Questions Answered](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medicare-your-questions-answered)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **third** and **last** digits of 653614

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

