Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1) /
  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) /

# ACT Health Plan

People in Canberra and the surrounding region will have better access to
health and medical services, when and where they need them, under the
Australian Government’s new ACT Health Plan.

 __Page last updated: 10 April 2019

[ACT Health Plan (PDF 2036
KB)](4AF4E30A67BA54EFCA2583D8001D9409/$File/ACT%20FINAL.pdf)

## Improving health and aged care

The ACT Health Plan will significantly strengthen the ACT’s health system,
delivering local solutions to local problems.

At the same time, we are ensuring that the ACT shares in the generation-
changing reforms, unprecedented funding and improved health outcomes being
delivered nationally under our Long Term Health Plan.

The Long Term Health Plan includes additional funding of $594.3 million for
public hospitals in Canberra.

  * Under the ACT Health Plan, we are investing more than $68 million to deliver:
  * More mental health care, especially for young people ($9.4 million)
  * Drug and alcohol rehabilitation services ($7.9 million)
  * New critical hospital infrastructure and services ($19.5 million)
  * Lifesaving medical research ($14 million)
  * Improved care for senior Australians living in residential aged care ($3.7 million)
  * Support for people with eating disorders ($13.5 million)

## Mental health

The Government is committed to ensuring young people in the ACT with mental
health issues can access the care that is right for them, where and when they
need it.

### Youth mental health and suicide prevention ($6 million)

We are providing almost $6 million to help establish the Youth Mental Health
and Suicide Prevention Project to support the mental health of young people in
the ACT. An Online Youth Navigation Portal will provide personalised online
and phone services for young people, their friends and family, and other
health professionals. It will consolidate information in one place, to provide
a clear and accessible pathway for young people to get the help they need.

The Youth Aware of Mental Health program will be delivered in schools across
the ACT to educate and engage young people in discussions about mental health.

### headspace ($3.4 million)

We are investing $3.4 million over four years for a new headspace centre in
the ACT, in addition to the established centre at Torrens Street, Braddon.

headspace is the Australian Government’s preferred method of service delivery
for young people living with mental illness. It provides tailored and holistic
mental health support, working closely with young people at a crucial time in
their lives to help them get back on track and strengthen their ability to
manage their mental health as they go through life. In 2017–18, more than
1,500 young people in Canberra and the region accessed headspace services.

### New residential eating disorder clinic ($13.5 million)

Proper treatment of the most severe eating disorders requires 24/7 intensive
care. To help deliver this necessary support for the first time in Australia,
the Australian Government will provide $13.5 million to establish a
residential eating disorder centre in the ACT.

This centre will provide specialist care for people experiencing eating
disorders, through in-patient best practice treatment programs. The centre
will also help advance the way eating disorders are diagnosed and treated
through training, education and advocacy.

Patients will also benefit from our historic $110 million investment in
Medicare to provide up to 40 rebatable psychological and 20 dietetic sessions
per year for people suffering from an eating disorder.

This commitment to delivering leading medical care in Australia builds on the
Government’s many other landmark investments in recognising the devastating
impact of eating disorders, including funding for sister residential centres
around the country, $4 million for InsideOut Institute to translate evidence
into clinical practice, $3 million for the establishment of the National ED
Hope helpline, $2.7 million for the National Eating Disorders Collaboration,
$3.2 million for a trial of new models of care on the Sunshine Coast, and
priority funding through the Million Minds Mission research fund.

## Aged care

Along with the rest of Australia, the ACT’s population is ageing at an
unprecedented rate, and providing safe, quality and cost-effective aged care
is an ongoing challenge.

###  Quality residential aged care ($3.7 million)

We will provide $3.7 million to support all ACT residential aged care
facilities to optimise the safety of senior Australians receiving care and
reduce adverse effects related to medication. Pharmacists will be embedded in
all 27 residential care facilities in Canberra – with funding for each service
to employ a part-time pharmacist to work closely with general practitioners
and nursing staff, to ensure the quality use of medicines. These pharmacists
will have close linkages with community pharmacy in the surrounding areas.

Senior Australians living in residential aged care services are the highest
users of medications. Providing safe and effective medication management is
integral to ensuring high quality care and reducing medication-related adverse
events, including avoidable hospitalisations.

### Support at home

We are continuing to support senior Australians in the ACT to stay living at
home for as along possible. Currently more than 1,300 people are receiving a
home care package, which provides coordinated care to help them remain at
home, where they want to be. This number will continue to grow in line with
the Government’s significant investment to deliver more home care packages.

Senior Australians in the ACT will also benefit from around $60 million over
the next two years provided for the Commonwealth Home Support Programme, which
delivers entry level home supports such as meals on wheels, cleaning,
gardening and transport.

## Drugs and alcohol

We are tackling head-on the scourge of drugs and alcohol that is impacting so
many individuals, families and communities. As many as 70 per cent of complex
chronic mental health patients have alcohol and drug issues.

### Community Withdrawal Support Service ($3.6 million)

This non‑residential based withdrawal program will be delivered by Registered
Nurses, in partnership with general practitioners and alcohol and other drug
services. It will provide support for people with mild to moderate withdrawal
symptoms and a safe alternative for people who experience barriers accessing
hospital and residential clinics.

### Community-based services ($4.3 million)

We will expand and modernise community-based residential alcohol and other
drug rehabilitation services in the ACT ($4.3 million). These services provide
a safe, structured and therapeutic environment for people to develop the
skills and strategies to make positive life changes. This investment will mean
infrastructure upgrades and maintenance, and more rehabilitation beds.

## Hospitals

The Government is committed to investing in critical hospital infrastructure
projects which better equip hospital systems to meet the health care needs of
their local communities.

### Hospital infrastructure ($13.5 million)

We are providing $13.5 million for the much needed expansion of the Canberra
Hospital Intensive Care Unit (ICU). An additional six to eight ICU beds will
provide lifesaving care for patients requiring acute medical treatment and
intensive care monitoring.

### MRI ($6 million)

The Government is ensuring the ACT shares in our national MRI expansion
program, which is delivering an unprecedented number of Medicare-eligible MRI
services. Canberra will get a new MRI service at Calvary Hospital, Bruce,
starting 1 April, with funding of more than $6.0 million. More MRI units allow
patients to access Medicare-subsidised lifesaving scans.

### Extra hospital funding ($594.3 million)

Under our Long Term Health Plan, we are making significant investment in
Australia’s public hospitals. For the ACT, this plan delivers an additional
$594.3 million under a new five year funding agreement.

This will deliver thousands of new hospital services to patients across
Canberra and the surrounding region.

## Medical research

The Government’s commitments to lifesaving health and medical research,
supports doctors, nurses and researchers in treating patients and finding new
diagnoses, cutting edge treatments and breakthrough cures.

### Phenomics research at the Australian National University ($10 million)

Phenomics is the study of how our genes interact with the environment. This is
important in understanding the way a disease works, so personalised treatment
can be developed for patients.

We are continuing our commitment to research by providing $10 million to the
Phenomics Translation Centre at the Australian National University.

This investment will help doctors better understand, prevent and treat complex
and chronic diseases as well as debilitating or incurable diseases. It will
also provide valuable insight into new drugs, devices and therapies that will
transform and save lives.

### Preventive health research at the University of Canberra ($4 million)

Our investment of $4 million will support research focusing on better
coordinated care for people with chronic and complex disease, and helping them
to self-manage their condition, to keep them out of hospital.

### In this section

  * [ __A-Z listing](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [ __Accessible mental health services for people with an intellectual disability: a guide for providers](http://3dn.unsw.edu.au/the-guide)
  *  **[ __ACT Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/act-health-plan.htm)**
  * [ __Australian Secondary School Students’ use of tobacco, alcohol, and over-the-counter and illicit substances in 2014](http://www.nationaldrugstrategy.gov.au/internet/drugstrategy/Publishing.nsf/content/australian-secondary-students-alcohol-drug-survey)
  * [ __Dementia - National Framework for Action, 2015-2019](https://agedcare.health.gov.au/ageing-and-aged-care-older-people-their-families-and-carers-dementia/national-framework-for-action-on-dementia-2015-2019)
  * [ __Independent Review of the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Independent_Review_AIHW)
  * [ __Nursing Workforce Sustainability - Improving Nurse Retention and Productivity report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/nursing-workforce-sustainability-improving-nurse-retention-and-productivity)
  * [ __Review of Medicare Locals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/review-medicare-locals-final-report)
  * [ __Tasmanian Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tas-health-plan.htm)
  * [ __Victorian Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/vic-health-plan.htm)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fact-
health-plan.htm "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
  * [Ordering publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-ordering)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **fourth** and **last** digits of 538654

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

