Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1) /
  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu) /

# Ban on the use of animal test data for cosmetics

This page contains information regarding the ban on the use of animal test
data for cosmetics.

 __Page last updated: 05 July 2021

Cosmetic testing on animals is banned in Australia. The ban commenced on 1
July 2020 and means new ingredients used exclusively in cosmetics that are
manufactured in, or imported into Australia cannot use information from animal
testing to prove safety.

Australia’s ban on the use of animal test data for cosmetics:

  * aligns with the European Union (EU) approach to ensure the ongoing protection of public health, worker safety and the environment and minimal impact to business
  * encourages information from new methods not relying on the use of animals, for chemicals with any industrial use (including cosmetics).

## Implementing the ban

A variety of mechanisms were used to implement the ban, including:

  * [Legislation](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019A00012) that restricts the use of new animal test data to support the introduction into Australia of industrial chemicals used exclusively as cosmetic ingredients.
  * The National Health and Medical Research Council updated the [Animal Ethics Code](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/about-us/publications/australian-code-care-and-use-animals-scientific-purposes) to incorporate the ban into section 7.
  * The Department worked with the cosmetics industry to develop a [voluntary code of practice](https://accord.asn.au/sustainability/voluntary-industry-code-on-animal-test-ban/). The code guides promotional claims about animal testing that can or cannot be made on cosmetic products.
  * A consumer awareness and information package, as well as a retail education and engagement package was delivered throughout the first half of 2021.
  * A stakeholder advisory group considered aspects related to the ban’s first 12 months of operation. The **Ban on Cosmetic Testing on Animals Implementation Advisory Group** met four times and comprised representatives from the cosmetics industry, animal welfare organisations, researchers and government. The group provided expert guidance and feedback to the Department of Health about non-legislative components of the ban’s implementation.

## Exceptions in limited circumstances

The ban on using animal test data for ingredients used exclusively in
cosmetics, applies in all circumstances apart from 3 limited exceptions. These
exceptions are outlined in the [Industrial Chemicals (General)
Rules](https://www.nicnas.gov.au/New-scheme-1-July-2020/Key-information-about-
the-new-scheme/aicis-industrial-chemicals-general-rules-2019).

Exceptions are consistent with the European Union’s regulation and are
necessary to protect human health and the environment. While there is a trend
away from animal testing, it does enable understanding some of these risks.

## New industrial chemicals regulation scheme

The _[Industrial Chemicals Act
2019](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019A00012)_ commenced on 1 July
2020, along with the [Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme
(AICIS)](https://industrialchemicals.gov.au/).

In addition to the Act, the [Industrial Chemicals (General)
Rules](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/F2019L01543) and [Industrial
Chemicals Categorisation Guidelines (Categorisation
Guidelines)](https://www.nicnas.gov.au/New-scheme-1-July-2020/Key-information-
about-the-new-scheme/aicis-industrial-chemicals-categorisation-guidelines) set
out AICIS’ technical and operational details, as well as the requirements for
introducers.

## Q&As

### Why has Australia banned cosmetic testing on animals?

There is strong public support to ban cosmetic testing on animals. This ban
brings Australia into line with the EU and other countries introducing a ban
on using data from tests on animals for determining the risks of new cosmetic
ingredients.

### Will the cosmetics that I’m currently using disappear from the shelves as
a result of the ban?

No, cosmetics already existing on the market are not affected by the ban. The
ban relates to new chemicals used exclusively as cosmetic ingredients.

### Was animal testing on cosmetics common in Australia before the ban?

No. Animal testing for cosmetic ingredients does not happen in Australia. The
ban protects against this type of testing in the future and it limits the
number of new cosmetic ingredients introduced to Australia that have been
tested on animals in other countries.

### Does the ban impact on the safety of new cosmetic ingredients?

No. When information is required to support the introduction of a new cosmetic
ingredient, the legislation allows for a range of alternate data sources to be
provided instead of animal test data.

This can include recognised international alternatives to animal tests, for
example, tests validated by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), computer- based modelling and information from existing
animal test data of a similar chemical.

If the information requirements cannot be met using non-animal test data, the
new cosmetic ingredient may not be introduced.

### Will the use of animal test data be accepted in certain situations?

Yes. Like the EU, the legislation allows for animal test data to be considered
for environmental hazards where there are no available alternative means of
assessing the risk. The Act also ensures that an introducer cannot ignore
animal data that shows the chemical could harm humans or the environment.

### How is the ban applied to ingredients also used for other purposes?

The ban will cover most cosmetics introduced in Australia.

However, new cosmetic ingredients may also have other industrial uses. These
are known as multi-use chemicals, for example, perfumes and scents used in
cosmetics and cleaning products.

  * Historical data suggest, less than 1% of these multi-use cosmetic ingredients used animal test information to prove their safety.

In line with the Government’s original commitment, these multi-use ingredients
are excluded from the ban. To expand the scope of the ban beyond this:

  * will be inconsistent with other bans implemented internationally (for example the EU)
  * will not reduce the amount of animal testing that occurs
  * may lead to higher costs or reduced choice for consumers
  * may lead to human health and environmental safety issues as the development of alternative non-animal tests to ensure safety is ongoing.

## More information

For all media enquiries please email
[news@health.gov.au](mailto:news@health.gov.au)

### In this section

  * [ __Medical Rural Bonded Scholarship Scheme 2014](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-mrb)
  * [ __National Rural Health Students' Network](http://nrhsn.org.au)
  * [ __Nursing and Allied Health Scholarship and Support Scheme (NAHSSS)](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-nahsss)
  * [ __Alcohol](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-drugs-alcohol-index.htm)
  * [ __Children of Parents with a Mental Illness](http://www.copmi.net.au)
  * [ __headspace (National Youth Mental Health Foundation)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)
  * [ __KidsMatter](http://www.kidsmatter.edu.au/)
  * [ __Living is for everyone (LiFE)](http://www.livingisforeveryone.com.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health Council of Australia](http://www.mhca.org.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health in Multicultural Australia](http://www.mhima.org.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health Nurse Incentive Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-mhnip)
  * [ __Mental Health Professionals Network](http://www.mhpn.org.au/ )
  * [ __Mindmatters](http://www.mindmatters.edu.au/default.asp)
  * [ __National Youth Mental Health Foundation (headspace)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-all)
  * [ __ResponseAbility Education](http://www.responseability.org/site/index.cfm?display=21924)
  *  **[ __Ban on the use of animal test data for cosmetics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ban-cosmetic-testing-animals)**
  * [ __Health Policy Research and Data Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health_Policy_Research_and_Data_Program)
  * [ __Overview](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-nurse)
  * [ __Packer Policy Fellowship Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/packer-policy-fellows)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Growth Hormone Program](http://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/section100-gh)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme Collection of Under Co-payment Data](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pbs-under-copayment-data)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives - Results](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-results)
  * [ __Review of the eligibility of retirement visa holders for Medicare under relevant reciprocal health care agreements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/retirement-visa-holders)
  * [ __The Australian-American Health Policy Fellowship](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Australian-American-Health-Policy-Fellowship)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fban-
cosmetic-testing-animals "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
  * [Biosimilar Awareness Initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/biosimilar-awareness-initiative)
  * [Casemix](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-casemix-data-collections-about-HCP)
  * [Folate](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-folate-index.htm)
  * [Living Organ Donation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Leave-for-living-organ-donors)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **fourth** and **last** digits of 192115

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

