Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fpublications-
Annual%20reports "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1) /
  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) /

# Publications - Annual reports

Annual reports-related publications in the Health website.

 __Page last updated: 29 May 2023 (this page is generated automatically and
reflects updates to other content within the website)

## By Title

View publications by title beginning with...

  * [A](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-A "View publications with titles beginning with A")
  * [B](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-B "View publications with titles beginning with B")
  * [C](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-C "View publications with titles beginning with C")
  * [D](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-D "View publications with titles beginning with D")
  * [E](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-E "View publications with titles beginning with E")
  * [F](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-F "View publications with titles beginning with F")
  * [G](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-G "View publications with titles beginning with G")
  * [H](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-H "View publications with titles beginning with H")
  * [I](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-I "View publications with titles beginning with I")
  * [J](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-J "View publications with titles beginning with J")
  * [K](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-K "View publications with titles beginning with K")
  * [L](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-L "View publications with titles beginning with L")
  * [M](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-M "View publications with titles beginning with M")
  * [N](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-N "View publications with titles beginning with N")
  * [O](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-O "View publications with titles beginning with O")
  * [P](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-P "View publications with titles beginning with P")
  * [Q](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Q "View publications with titles beginning with Q")
  * [R](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-R "View publications with titles beginning with R")
  * [S](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-S "View publications with titles beginning with S")
  * [T](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-T "View publications with titles beginning with T")
  * [U](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-U "View publications with titles beginning with U")
  * [V](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-V "View publications with titles beginning with V")
  * [W](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-W "View publications with titles beginning with W")
  * [X](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-X "View publications with titles beginning with X")
  * [Y](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Y "View publications with titles beginning with Y")
  * [Z](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Z "View publications with titles beginning with Z")
  * [0 - 9](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-0-9 "View publications with titles beginning with numerals")

## By Health Topic

View publications by health topic

select a topic...Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander HealthAlcoholAnnual
reportsAntibiotic resistanceArthritisAsthmaAutismBlood and Blood
productsBreastfeedingBudgetCancerCardiovascular diseasesCarersCasemixChild
healthChronic diseaseClinical TrialsCommunicable diseasesCouncilsDental
healthDiabetesDiagnostic imagingDiseases and conditionsDrugsDrugs and
substance abusee-HealthEmergency managementEnvironmental healthExerciseEye
healthFood standardsFraudGeneral practiceGP Super ClinicsGrantsHealth care
systemsHealth insuranceHealth personnelHealth promotionHealth TechnologyHealth
workforceHearingHepatitis BHepatitis CHIVHIV/AIDSHormonesHospitalsIllegal
drugsImmunisationInfant HealthInfluenzaInjury preventionLegislationMaternal
HealthMedical indemnityMedical Treatment OverseasMedicareMedicinal
cannabisMen's healthMental healthMidwivesNursingNutritionObesityOncologyOrgan
and tissue donationPalliative carePandemicPathologyPersonally controlled
electronic health recordsPharmaceutical benefitsPharmacyPhysical
activityPrescribed drugsPrimary health carePrivate Health
InsuranceProfessional indemnityPublic awarenessRadiationRegulation and Red
Tape ReductionResearch and developmentRural health servicesSexual HealthSpeech
pathologySportStatisticsSuicide preventionTobaccoWomen's healthYouth health

* * *

Alternatively [view all 628
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-all) or the
[most recently added
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) on
this website.

## Your selection has returned 32 publications:

Publication| Year| Status| Health topics  
---|---|---|---  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas:
Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF) Complaints Committee: 2019 –
2020](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-19-20-Annual-
Report-of-the-Marketing-in-Australia-of-Infant-Formula "Annual Report of the
Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers
Agreement \(MAIF\) Complaints Committee: 2019 – 2020")

2019 - 2020 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Tribunal (the Tribunal)

| 2021| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas:
Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF) Complaints Committee: 2018 –
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-18-19-Annual-
Report-of-the-Marketing-in-Australia-of-Infant-Formula "Annual Report of the
Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers
Agreement \(MAIF\) Complaints Committee: 2018 – 2019")

2018 - 2019 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Complaints Committee

| 2019| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal:
2017 – 2018](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-
apmaif-17-18-Annual-Report-of-the-Marketing-in-Australia-of-Infant-Formula-
Tribunal "Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Tribunal: 2017 – 2018")

2017 - 2018 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Tribunal (the Tribunal)

| 2019| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Department of Health Annual Report
2017-18](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/annual-report2017-18
"Department of Health Annual Report 2017-18")

This page displays information on the 2017-18 Department of Health Annual
Report.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal:
2016 – 2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-16-17
"Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal: 2016
– 2017")

2016 - 2017 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula

| 2018| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Department of Health Annual Report
2016-17](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/annual-report2016-17
"Department of Health Annual Report 2016-17")

This page displays information on the 2016-17 Department of Health Annual
Report.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal
2015 - 2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-15-16
"Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal 2015 -
2016")

2015 - 2016 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula

| 2017| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Medical Education and Training in Australia  
National Medical Training Advisory Network  
First edition](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-education-and-
training-in-australia-national-medical-training-advisory-network-first-edition
"Medical Education and Training in Australia<br> National Medical Training
Advisory Network<br> First edition")

Summary text to go here

| 2017| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)

  
  
### [Department of Health Annual Report
2015-16](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/annual-report2015-16
"Department of Health Annual Report 2015-16")

This page displays information on the 2015-16 Department of Health Annual
Report.

| 2016| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: nineteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-19 "Medical
Training Review Panel: nineteenth report")

Every year the Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) is required to produce a
report on medical education and training in Australia.

| 2016| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)

  
  
### [Online version of the 2014-15 Department of Health Annual
Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/annual-report-1415-toc "Online
version of the 2014-15 Department of Health Annual Report")

| 2015| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [2014-2015 Department of Health Annual
Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/annual-report2014-15 "2014-2015
Department of Health Annual Report")

This page displays information on the 2014-2015 Department of Health Annual
Report.

| 2015| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: eighteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-18 "Medical
Training Review Panel: eighteenth report")

Every year the Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) is required to produce a
report on medical education and training in Australia.

| 2015| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)

  
  
### [Online version of the 2013-14 Department of Health Annual
Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/annual-report-1314-toc "Online
version of the 2013-14 Department of Health Annual Report")

| 2014| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [2013-14 Department of Health Annual
Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/annual-report2013-14 "2013-14
Department of Health Annual Report")

This page displays information on the 2013-14 Department of Health Annual
Report.

| 2014| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: seventeenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-17 "Medical
Training Review Panel: seventeenth report")

The Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) seventeenth report covers the three
levels of medical training in Australia, presenting data on all trainees in
undergraduate, postgraduate and vocational training programs in 2013.

| 2014| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel:
17th](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-17 "Medical
Training Review Panel: 17<sup>th</sup>")

The Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) 17th Report covers the three levels
of medical training in Australia; providing data on all trainees in
undergraduate, postgraduate and vocational training programs in 2013.

| 2014| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)

  
  
### [Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record System Operator: Annual
Report 2012-2013](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/PCEHR-system-operator-
annual-report2012-2013 "Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record System
Operator: Annual Report 2012-2013")

The Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record (PCEHR) System Operator
(Secretary of the Department of Health) has prepared an annual report for
2012-13 period in accordance with section 107 of the _Personally Controlled
Electronic Health Records Act 2012_. The report includes information on the
operation and security of the PCEHR system, the volume of registration and use
of the system, activities undertaken by the System Operator and the operation
of the advisory committees - the Jurisdictional Advisory Committee and the
Independent Advisory Council.

| 2013| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [e-Health](publications-e-Health)

  
  
### [Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record System Operator: Annual
Report 2012-2013](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/PCEHR-system-operator-
annual-report2012-2013 "Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record System
Operator: Annual Report 2012-2013")

The Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record (PCEHR) System Operator
(Secretary of the Department of Health) has prepared an annual report for
2012-13 period in accordance with section 107 of the _Personally Controlled
Electronic Health Records Act 2012_. The report includes information on the
operation and security of the PCEHR system, the volume of registration and use
of the system, activities undertaken by the System Operator and the operation
of the advisory committees - the Jurisdictional Advisory Committee and the
Independent Advisory Council.

| 2013| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [e-Health](publications-e-Health)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: sixteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-16 "Medical
Training Review Panel: sixteenth report")

The Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) 16th Report covers the three levels
of medical training in Australia; providing data on all trainees in
undergraduate, postgraduate and vocational training programs in 2012.

| 2013| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: sixteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-16 "Medical
Training Review Panel: sixteenth report")

The Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) 16th Report covers the three levels
of medical training in Australia; providing data on all trainees in
undergraduate, postgraduate and vocational training programs in 2012.

| 2013| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: fifteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-15 "Medical
Training Review Panel: fifteenth report")

The fifteenth report of the Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) covers the
three levels of medical training in Australia, providing data on all trainees
in undergraduate, postgraduate and vocational training programs in the last
year, 2011.

| 2012| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: fifteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-15 "Medical
Training Review Panel: fifteenth report")

The fifteenth report of the Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) covers the
three levels of medical training in Australia, providing data on all trainees
in undergraduate, postgraduate and vocational training programs in the last
year, 2011.

| 2012| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)

  
  
### [Commonwealth response to the Senate Community Affairs Committee Final
Report 2009: National registration and accreditation scheme for doctors and
other health workers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hwd-pubs-
nars-2009-final-report "Commonwealth response to the Senate Community Affairs
Committee Final Report 2009: National registration and accreditation scheme
for doctors and other health workers")

This document is the Commonwealth’s response to the Community Affairs
Committee’s report on the impact of the National Registration and
Accreditation Scheme (NRAS) on the training, accreditation and qualification
of health workforce professionals.

| 2011| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: Fourteenth
Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-14 "Medical
Training Review Panel: Fourteenth Report")

The fourteenth annual report of the Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP).

| 2011| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: fourteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-14 "Medical
Training Review Panel: fourteenth report")

The fourteenth report of the Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) provides
information on university, prevocational and vocational medical training
places, applicants, trainees, examinations, new college fellows and total
college fellows. For the first time data from the Medical Schools Outcomes
Database (MSOD) has been included, providing further demographic and prior
study information on medical students.

| 2011| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Medical Training Review Panel: thirteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-13 "Medical
Training Review Panel: thirteenth report")

The thirteenth report of the Medical Training Review Panel (MTRP) provides
information on university, prevocational and vocational medical training
places, applicants, trainees, examinations, new college fellows and total
college fellows. For the first time the report also presents a chapter on
those overseas trained doctors applying to work and working in Australia.

| 2010| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)
  * [Health personnel](publications-Health personnel)
  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia of
Infant Formula 2007 - 2008](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-
apmaif_07 "Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia
of Infant Formula 2007 - 2008")

The Panel monitors compliance with the _Marketing in Australia of Infant
Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement_ (MAIF Agreement). The aim of
the MAIF Agreement is to contribute to the provision of safe and adequate
nutrition for infants, by the protection and promotion of breastfeeding and by
ensuring the proper use of breast milk substitutes when they are necessary.

| 2009| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Child health](publications-Child health)
  * [Nutrition](publications-Nutrition)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia of
Infant Formula 2004 - 2007](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-
apmaif_04 "Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia
of Infant Formula 2004 - 2007")

The Panel monitors compliance with the Marketing in Australia of Infant
Formula: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF Agreement). The aim of
the MAIF Agreement is to help ensure safe and adequate nutrition for infants,
by the protection and promotion of breastfeeding.

| 2008| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Child health](publications-Child health)
  * [Nutrition](publications-Nutrition)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia of
Infant Formula 2003 - 2004](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
pubhlth-publicat-document-brfeed-apmaif_03.htm "Annual Report of the Advisory
Panel on the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula 2003 - 2004")

The Panel monitors compliance with the Marketing in Australia of Infant
Formula: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF Agreement). The aim of
the MAIF Agreement is to help ensure safe and adequate nutrition for infants,
by the protection and promotion of breastfeeding.

| 2005| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Child health](publications-Child health)
  * [Nutrition](publications-Nutrition)

  
  
### ["Mother's milk - perfect anytime
anywhere"](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-brfeed-comicpos-cnt.htm)

THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN RESCINDED - Promotional poster for breastfeeding

| 2004| Rescinded|

  * [Child health](publications-Child health)
  * [Nutrition](publications-Nutrition)
  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia of
Infant Formula](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-brfeed-apmaif_01.htm "Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the
Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula")

The Panel monitors compliance with the Marketing in Australia of Infant
Formula: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement 1992 (MAIF Agreement). The aim
of the MAIF Agreement is to help ensure safe and adequate nutrition for
infants, by the protection and promotion of breastfeeding.

| 2002| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Child health](publications-Child health)

  
  
  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **third** and **fourth** digits of 389681

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

