Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions) /
  * [Hospital Authorities](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hospital-authorities) /

# Hospital Authorities

How to apply to become a PBS approved supplier - information for Hospital
Authorities

 __Page last updated: 11 October 2022

Public hospital (participating in the Pharmaceutical Reform Arrangements)  
Non-dispensing public hospital (participating in the Pharmaceutical Reform
Arrangements)  
Public hospital ( **not** participating in the Pharmaceutical Reform
Arrangements)  
Private hospital  
Submitting forms via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal  
Applying for hospital approval  
Prescribing-only hospital  
Bank account details  
Authority for authorised person(s) to sign forms  
Claiming for PBS medicines  
Contact us  
Form - Privacy Note  

## Public hospital (participating in the Pharmaceutical Reform Arrangements)

A hospital that has been declared a public hospital under subsection 121-5 of
the [_Private Health Insurance Act
2007_](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2007A00031) and is participating
in the Pharmaceutical Reform Arrangements under the National Health Care
Agreement can apply for approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits and highly
specialised drugs to patients receiving treatment in or at the hospital.

## Non-dispensing public hospital (participating in the Pharmaceutical Reform
Arrangements)

An approval granted under section 100 of the [_National Health Act
1953_](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C1953A00095) to a hospital
authority, in respect of a particular public hospital, enables a public
hospital authority that does not have a dispensary or pharmacy at the hospital
to claim for the supply of highly specialised drugs. The highly specialised
drugs may be supplied to patients receiving treatment in or at the public
hospital, where supply of those drugs is undertaken by a third party such as a
community pharmacy, friendly society or agent.

## Public hospital ( **not** participating in the Pharmaceutical Reform
Arrangements)

A public hospital authority that is not participating in the Pharmaceutical
Reform Arrangements can apply for approval under section 100 of the [_National
Health Act 1953_](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C1953A00095) to supply
highly specialised drugs to patients receiving treatment in or at the
hospital.

## Private hospital

A hospital that has been declared a private hospital under subsection 121-5 of
the [_Private Health Insurance Act
2007_](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2007A00031) can apply for
approval under section 94 of the [_National Health Act
1953_](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C1953A00095) to supply
pharmaceutical benefits and/or highly specialised drugs to patients receiving
treatment in or at the hospital.

A hospital authority approved in respect of a private hospital can prescribe
and/or supply PBS subsidised medicines and/or highly specialised drugs.

## Submitting forms via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal

Each PBS Approved Suppliers form contains instructions on how it should be
returned. For further information on how to submit forms via the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal, refer to the guide: [How to upload PDF forms or additional
requested information](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-
benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms).

## Applying for hospital approval

To apply for approval to enable a public or private hospital authority to
supply pharmaceutical benefits and/or highly specialised drugs, the hospital
authority must complete the [Application for a hospital authority to prescribe
and/or supply pharmaceutical benefits and/or highly specialised drugs
form](pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-
forms#hospital) and submit it via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal.

## Prescribing-only hospital

To notify the Department of Health and Aged Care of approval of a public
hospital to prescribe pharmaceutical benefits in accordance with the
applicable Pharmaceutical Reform Agreement, the hospital authority must
complete the [Notification of a prescribing-only hospital
form](pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-
forms#hospital) and submit it via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal.

## Bank account details

To notify of the bank account into which PBS payments are to be made, the
hospital authority must complete the [Notification of bank account details for
a hospital authority form](pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-
guides-and-forms#hospital) and submit it via the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal. Please allow up to 10 working days for the notification to take
effect.

## Authority for authorised person(s) to sign forms

To authorise a pharmacist to sign PBS claims on behalf of a hospital
authority, the hospital authority must complete the [Authority to authorise
pharmacist(s) to sign claim forms on behalf of a hospital authority
form](pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-
forms#hospital) and submit it via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal.

## Claiming for PBS medicines

The Commonwealth will reimburse approved suppliers for PBS medicines supplied
to Australian residents and eligible overseas visitors.

Once recommended or approved by the Department of Health and Aged Care, to set
up online PBS claiming with Services Australia, the PRODA set-up and form
below should be completed, including the Hospital approval number issued to
the hospital authority, and the form emailed to Services Australia, at the
address on the form. (Please do **not** email this form to the Department of
Health and Aged Care.)

  * [Notification of Australian Business Number and reference identification for tax treatment purposes and recipient created tax invoice agreement form](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/forms/hw055)

Services Australia cannot pay for PBS medicines supplied if you have not
submitted this forms.

Read more about registering for online claiming for the PBS, including PRODA
set-up on the [Services Australia
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/pbs-approved-supplier/register/register-
online-claiming-pbs).

Check with your pharmacy dispensing software provider as to whether you will
need a Medicare PKI site certificate. If yes, complete an [Application for a
PKI site certificate form (HW001) - Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/hw001). Once the form has been
received and processed, Services Australia will issue you with a PKI site
certificate.

## Contact us

For any queries, please email details of your enquiry to
[pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au](mailto:pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au)
or call PBS Approved suppliers on 1800 316 389.

### Contact Services Australia (formerly the Department of Human Services)

Service Australia oversees patient eligibility and PBS claim payments, and
sets up online claiming.  
Read more about online claiming for the PBS on the Services Australia website
or call 1800 700 199.  
To check patient eligibility or script authority queries, please call 132 290.

## Form – Privacy Note

The Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care (Department) is
bound by the _Privacy Act 1988_ and the Australian Privacy Principles (APPs).

The Department is collecting personal information that you provide in the
relevant Form for the purposes of assessing the application or processing the
notification (as the case may be). The collection of the personal information
is authorised under the _National Health Act 1953_ (Cth) and delegated
legislation under that Act.

For further information, please visit [Privacy and your personal
information](form-privacy-note).

  

### In this section

  *  **[ __Hospital Authorities](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hospital-authorities)**

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fhospital-
authorities "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
  * [Pharmacists](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmacists)
  * [Hospital Authorities](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hospital-authorities)
  * [Medical Practitioners](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-practitioners)
  * [Application Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-application-fees)
  * [Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
  * [Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms)
  * [Minister’s discretionary power to approve a pharmacist](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ministerial-discretion)
  * [New or relocating pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa)
  * [Archived news updates](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-updates)
  * [Contact us](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-contact-us)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **third** , **fifth** and **last** digits of 278693

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

