Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions) /

# Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers

PBS approved supplier administrative functions

 __Page last updated: 11 May 2023

The Department of Health and Aged Care manages and implements PBS approved
supplier policy to improve the health outcomes of all Australians through
access to medicines.

Please visit the [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)](pharmaceutical-benefits-
scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
web page for further details about PBS Approved Supplier administrative
functions and the [PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal](https://pbsapprovedsuppliers.health.gov.au/).

## News Updates

### May 2023

#### Amendments to the National Health (Pharmaceutical Benefits) (Conditions
of approval for approved pharmacists) Determination 2017

Changes made by the Minister for Health and Aged Care, the Hon Mark Butler MP,
to the conditions for approved pharmacists, come into effect on 1 June 2023.

The changes provide greater consistency with the _National Health Act 1953_
regarding the supply of PBS medicines.

The changes will make it a breach of a pharmacist’s conditions of approval
where:

  * a claim is made, or advance payment sought, for PBS medicines not supplied at (or from) the approved premises
  * PBS medicines are dispensed via remote access to the pharmacy including, but not limited to, where the dispensing pharmacist is not an Australian registered pharmacist
  * the approved pharmacist shares their PBS approval number with another pharmacist for the purpose of allowing that other pharmacist to dispense PBS medicines at an unapproved pharmacy premises, and
  * the approved pharmacist has entered into any form of arrangement which facilitates the supply of PBS medicines by the approved pharmacist to patients presenting at pharmacy premises which are not approved.

The changes also update references to Pharmaceutical Society of Australia’s
documents.

The amending Determination has been published on the Federal Register of
Legislative Instruments [National Health Legislation Amendment (Conditions of
Approval for Approved Pharmacists) Instrument
2023](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2023L00511).

Pharmacists are encouraged to familiarise themselves with the amendments.

### April 2023

#### Easter shutdown

The Department of Health and Aged Care is closed from 3pm on Thursday 6 April
2022 for the Easter period and will reopen on Tuesday 11 April 2023.

While applicants previously issued with an administration number may request
an approval on 6 April 2023, evidence that settlement has occurred and/or the
pharmacy is open and trading, must be received by the PBS Approved Suppliers
team **prior to 2:00pm (Canberra time) on that day.**

If you have any questions, please email
[pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au](mailto:pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au)and
a departmental officer will contact you.

### October 2022

#### PBS Approved Suppliers – End of year closure period 2022

The Department of Health and Aged Care is closed from 3:00pm on Friday 23
December 2022 to Monday 2 January 2023 inclusive.

The PBS Approved Suppliers Portal will be available for submission of
applications and notifications during the closure period; however, no
assessments will be undertaken during this time.

Applicants who have been issued with an administration number, and who wish to
seek approval before the closure period, must provide any outstanding
information to the PBS Approved Suppliers team and request approval no later
than 4:00 pm (Canberra time) **20 December 2022**.

##### Applications requiring consideration by the Australian Community
Pharmacy Authority

Applications requiring consideration by the Australian Community Pharmacy
Authority (Authority) should continue to be submitted in line with the
submission dates at
[www.health.gov.au/acpa](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa?Open=&utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=redirect&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=acpa),
noting that the Authority’s last meeting for the year is scheduled for 9
December 2022. The cut-off date for lodging an application for this meeting is
11 November 2022.

Applicants should note that there is no meeting of the Authority scheduled for
January 2023 to account for the Department’s closure period and availability
of staff and Authority members in January.

##### Change of ownership applications and changes of other business details

If you are planning to change ownership or other business details of an
approved pharmacy between mid December and mid January, please ensure that
your application or request (whichever applies) is submitted in time to allow
assessment within published timeframes.

#### Updates to PBS Approved Suppliers forms

Due to renaming of the Department of Health and Aged Care in July 2022, PBS
Approved Suppliers PDF application and notification forms have been updated.
Changes include an update to the logo on each form, any reference to the
department, and minor updates throughout to ensure consistency across all
forms. Current forms have been published on the PBS Approved Suppliers Guides
and Forms page.

From 1 November 2022, only current approved forms available from our Guides
and Forms page will be accepted.

Any application submitted on or after 1 November 2022 must have the new
‘Current owner(s) declaration’ and ‘Appointment of a representative to prepare
and submit an application’ form attached. Out of date forms will result in an
application being deemed invalid and returned for resubmission.

Any application or notification uploaded on or after 1 November 2022 via the
Upload Documents function of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal must be on the
new forms. Out of date PDF forms will be deemed invalid and deactivated. A new
submission will be required in order for the form to be processed

### April 2022

#### Easter shutdown

The Department of Health and Aged Care is closed from 3pm on Thursday 14 April
2022 for the Easter period, and will reopen on Tuesday 19 April 2022.

While applicants previously issued with an administration number may request
an approval on 14 April 2022, evidence that settlement has occurred and/or the
pharmacy is open and trading, must be received by the PBS Approved Suppliers
team **prior to 2:00pm (Canberra time) on that day.**

If you have any questions, please email
[pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au](mailto:pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au)
and a departmental officer will contact you.

### March 2022

#### Pharmacies affected by flooding

If your pharmacy has been affected by the current floods in Queensland and New
South Wales resulting in you being unable to trade from your approved pharmacy
premises, you may apply for permission from the Australian Government
Department of Health and Aged Care to supply PBS medicines at alternative
premises for a temporary period.

If you do not intend to, or are unable to, supply from alternative premises,
and will instead temporarily close to undertake necessary repairs, you will
still need to let the Department of Health and Aged Care know of this as soon
as possible. This will allow the Department to deactivate your PBS approval.
Information about [deactivating a PBS approval](deactivation-of-an-
approvedppharmacist-guidelines).

To apply for permission to supply PBS medicines at alternative premises, or to
advise the Department of the temporary closure of your pharmacy, send an email
to
[pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au](mailto:pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au)
to outline the circumstances. The following information is also required if
you are applying for permission to supply PBS medicines at alternative
premises:

  * information surrounding the disaster, for example the date of the disaster, photographic evidence, building report/s
  * the address of the alternative premises, confirmation that it is in the same locality as the approved (affected) premises, and photographic evidence that the alternative premises is accessible by members of the public
  * the timeline of which you expect to trade from the alternative premises, i.e. the date from which the pharmacy will supply at the alternative premises to the date supply will cease – taking into account that date cannot be greater than six months from the date of the disaster
  * Relevant State or Territory pharmacy board approval

An application should be made within 14 days of the day you commenced
operating the pharmacy at the alternative premises.

### In this section

  * [ __New or relocating pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa)
  * [ __Application Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-application-fees)
  * [ __Deactivation of an approved pharmacist - guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/deactivation-of-an-approvedppharmacist-guidelines)
  * [ __Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
  * [ __Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms)
  * [ __Minister’s discretionary power to approve a pharmacist](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ministerial-discretion)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers - Archived news updates](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-updates)
  *  **[ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)**
  * [ __Privacy and your personal information](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/form-privacy-note)
  * [ __Terms of Use for PBS Approved Suppliers Portal](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-terms-of-use-for-pharmacy-approvals-portal)
  * [ __Contact us](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-contact-us)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fpharmaceutical-
benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions "Listen to this
page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
  * [Pharmacists](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmacists)
  * [Hospital Authorities](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hospital-authorities)
  * [Medical Practitioners](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-practitioners)
  * [Application Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-application-fees)
  * [Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
  * [Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms)
  * [Minister’s discretionary power to approve a pharmacist](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ministerial-discretion)
  * [New or relocating pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa)
  * [Archived news updates](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-updates)
  * [Contact us](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-contact-us)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **fourth** and **last** digits of 764908

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

