Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1) /
  * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1) /
  * [Child and Youth Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/child-and-youth-health-1) /

# Children and Young People in Out-of-Home Care

National Clinical Assessment Framework - March 2011 - Information for General
Practitioners

 __Page last updated: 13 April 2022

The _National Framework for Protecting Australia’s Children_ 2009 – 2020 was
endorsed by the Council of Australian Governments on 30 April 2009. It
represents a long-term, national approach to help protect all Australian
children and was developed through a strong partnership between governments
and the non-government sector.  
  
A number of reforms and actions are being implemented under the first
_National Framework for Protecting Australia’s Children_. One of these is the
development of the _National Clinical Assessment Framework for Children and
Young People in out-of-home care_. This document can be found below.  
  

## _What is the National Clinical Assessment Framework_

The overarching goal of the _[National Clinical Assessment Framework for
Children and Young People in out-of-home care (the Framework) (PDF 1323
KB)](D7D5B03B72211AD3CA257BF0001C11E2/$File/Clinical%20Assessment%20Framework%20-%20March%202011.pdf)_
is to improve responses to the health needs of children and young people in
out-of-home care and ultimately improve their health outcomes. Specifically,
the _Framework_ aims to provide better consistency and improve coordination of
health care assessments and services for all children and young people in out-
of-home care.  
  
The _Framework_ has been developed in consultation with a range of government
and non-government stakeholders with a focus on child protection, clinical and
consumer issues. The _Framework_ is based on a tiered approach to age-
appropriate assessments covering the key domains of physical, developmental,
psycholosocial and mental health. _The Framework_ document can be found below.  
  

## _What is out-of-home care?_

Children or young people may enter out-of-home care due to substantiated child
protection concerns, because their parents are incapable of providing adequate
care or because alternative accommodation is required during a time of family
difficulty/conflict.  
  
A child or young person may enter out-of-home care on a temporary or long term
basis. This can influence the type of health assessments undertaken and the
level of health care provided.  
  

## _Health status of children and young people in out-of-home care_

Children and young people in out-of-home care often have complex health needs
that may be unrecognised and unmet. They tend to have poor physical health,
developmental delays and compromised mental health. They also have a lower
rate of immunisation uptake compared to their peers. Significantly, children
and young people in out-of-home care tend to experience very limited access to
health resources that are otherwise routinely available to the rest of the
community. To further compound this situation, the large number of placements
experienced by some children in out-of-home care often leads to reduced
availability of information about their past medical history, inconsistent
maintenance of accurate information about their current health status and
consequently poor continuity of health care.  
  

## _Medicare items suitable for use when working with Children and Young
People in out-of-home care_

The Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing, on behalf of the
Child Health and Wellbeing Subcommittee, has developed a document for
distribution to General Practitioners. This document outlines Medicare items
that might be suitable for undertaking health checks and ongoing treatment and
monitoring for children in out-of-home care. These items are set out at
Appendix C of the _Framework_ document. The _Framework_ and Appendix C can be
found below.  
  
  
**_For more information please contact the relevant Department of Health in
your state or territory. Website links can be found at the bottom of this web
page._**

### In this section

  *  **[ __Children and Young People in Out-of-Home Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cyp-oohc-framework)**

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fcyp-
oohc-framework "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
  * [Alcohol](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/alcohol?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=alcohol)
  * [Child and Youth Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/child-and-youth-health-1)
  * [Environmental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-envhlth-index.htm)
  * [Illicit Drugs](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/drugs?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=illicit%20drugs)
  * [Immunisation](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=immunisation)
  * [Injury Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-injury-index.htm)
  * [International monitoring](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/waon)
  * [Maternal and Infant Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Maternal+and+Infant+Health-1)
  * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
  * [My Health Record registration](http://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au)
  * [National Drug Strategy](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/national-drug-strategy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=national-drug-strategy)
  * [Nutrition and Physical Activity](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Nutrition+and+Physical+Activity-1)
  * [Patient Education](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Patient+Education-1)
  * [Reproductive Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ART-Report)
  * [Tobacco](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/smoking-and-tobacco?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tobacco)
  * [National Preventive Health Strategy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-preventive-health-strategy)
  * [Travel Health and Human Biosecurity](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-humanbiosecurity)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **third** and **last** digits of 686988

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

