Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro) /
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care) /

# Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Health assessment for refugees and other
humanitarian entrants

Fact sheet giving details of health assessments for refugees and other
humanitarian entrants under Medicare items 701, 703, 705 and 707.

 __Page last updated: 2018

[Printable version of fact sheet (PDF 195
KB)](68FECE01C3274245CA257BF0001E02BB/$File/Medicare%20Benefits%20Schedule.pdf)  
  
A medical practitioner may select MBS Item **701 (brief), 703 (standard), 705
(long) or 707 (prolonged)** to undertake a health assessment for a refugee or
other humanitarian entrant, depending on the length of the consultation which
will be determined by the complexity of the patient’s presentation.  
  
This health assessment is for refugees and other humanitarian entrants who
arrive in Australia with complex and unusual medical conditions resulting from
their area of origin or previous living conditions. This assessment is
separate from, and in addition to, a medical assessment specifically for the
grant of a Refugee or Humanitarian visa.  
  
Some refugees or other humanitarian entrants will have little experience of
western health care systems and this health assessment provides an opportunity
to introduce these patients to preventive health care in Australia, in
particular immunisation, maternal and child health care, and breast and
cervical screening. Many will have been exposed to war, famine, repression,
torture and/or extreme poverty. The health assessment should be undertaken in
a manner that is sensitive to the needs of the patient.  

## Components of the health assessment for refugees and other humanitarian
entrants

The health assessment must include the assessment of the patient’s physical,
psychological and social functioning and whether preventive health care and
education should be offered to the patient to improve their health.
Psychological history should take into account possible long term effects of
torture and other forms of trauma. Clinical investigations will vary with
country of origin, age, gender and any previous tests. Consider the following
based on clinical need: FBC, iron studies; malaria Ag+/- film, Schistosomiasis
and Strongyloides serology; Hepatitis B & C; serum vitamin D; faecal
examination for parasites; STI screen, further TB (ie latent infection) and
HIV assessment; catch-up immunisation and relevant preventative health checks.  
  
The medical practitioner should keep a record of the health assessment and
offer to provide the patient with a written report about the health
assessment. Patient consent to the health assessment should be documented in
the patient’s record.  
  
In addition to the general requirements for health assessments, this
assessment should include the development of a management plan to address any
issues and/or conditions, including arranging for any necessary interventions
or referrals to other health care providers. This plan should be developed in
collaboration with the patient, and documented in a written report that is
offered to the patient.  
  
The management plan should include:

  * planned follow-up of issues and/or conditions found in history, examination and investigations, including initiating management to meet identified needs of the patient; 
  * initial recommendation concerning immunisation, nutrition, vitamin supplementation and medications; 
  * consideration of referrals to allied health professionals, approved professionals and/or specialist clinics to address issues of torture and trauma; and 
  * consideration of contraception advice and review of pap smear/sexually transmitted disease screening.

Most refugees arrive in Australia with medical records. For those who have, it
may be useful to obtain a copy, such as those of previous health assessments
that may have been undertaken pre-departure.  
  
A patient with a “health undertaking” has been assessed as having specific
health issues such as hepatitis or inactive tuberculosis that needs to be
addressed or monitored in Australia. By signing the undertaking, the refugee
agrees to report to the Health Undertaking Service and for follow-up with
their respective State or Territory health authority.  

## Restrictions

The health assessment is a voluntary one-off service and must be provided
within twelve months of the person’s arrival in Australia or grant of visa.
The medical practitioner should not conduct a separate consultation in
conjunction with the health assessment on the same day, except where it is
clinically required (ie. the patient has an acute problem that needs to be
managed separately from the assessment).  

## Patient Eligibility

The health assessment is available to people with the following visas:

  * Subclass 200 (Refugee) visa 
  * Subclass 201 (In-country Special Humanitarian) visa 
  * Subclass 202 (Global Special Humanitarian) visa 
  * Subclass 203 (Emergency Rescue) visa 
  * Subclass 204 (Women at Risk) visa 
  * Subclass 070 (Refugee Pending Bridging) visa 
  * Subclass 695 (Return Pending) visa 
  * Subclass 786 (Temporary (Humanitarian Concern)) visa 
  * Subclass 866 (Protection) visa.

A humanitarian entrant should be able to provide proof of their visa status
and date of arrival or residence (date of visa granted) by one of the
following documents:

  * a travel card known as a Document for Travel to Australia (DFTTA); 
  * a travel document including a Passport, a Titre de Voyage or a Certificate of Identity; 
  * a Visa Evidence Card identified by the numbers PLO56 or M56 or 
  * a Permanent Resident Evidence ImmiCard

Medical practitioners may telephone Department of Human Services (Medicare) on
132011, with the patient present, to check eligibility.  

## Interpreting and Translating Assistance

The Australian Government provides a [Free Interpreting
Service](https://www.dss.gov.au/our-responsibilities/settlement-
services/programs-policy/settle-in-australia/help-with-english/free-
interpreting-service) to eligible medical practitioners providing Medicare-
rebateable services in private practice to assist them communicate with anyone
in Australia who is eligible for Medicare. Interpreting services are provided
through the Translating and Interpreting Service (TIS National). To access
this free service, medical practitioners can complete the online client
registration form on the [TIS National
website](https://tisonline.tisnational.gov.au/RegisterAgency), or contact TIS
National on 1300 575 847. Once registered, free phone interpreting is
available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and on-site (face-to-face)
interpreting is available during business hours.  
  
The Free Translating Service is provided by the Australian Government for
people settling permanently in Australia, to support participation in
employment, education and community engagement. Permanent residents and select
temporary or provisional visa holders can have up to ten eligible documents
translated, into English, within the first two years of their eligible visa
grant date. Documents that can be translated into English include patient
medical reports or vaccination certificates. For more information go to the
[Free Translating Service](https://translating.dss.gov.au/en/about-this-
service) website.  

## Proposer Assistance

A proposer is a friend, relative or community organisation who has agreed to
assist the person to settle in Australia. Proposers only apply to visa class
202, Global Special Humanitarian. A proposer may be able to provide useful
information about the patient on matters such as physical, psychological and
social functioning but should not be used as an interpreter.  

## Guidelines and Resources

Medical practitioners are encouraged to utilise relevant guidelines and
resources, such as:

  * Item descriptors and explanatory notes from [MBS Online](http://health.gov.au/mbsonline)
  * Information about MBS primary care items at the [MBS Primary Care Items page](http://www.health.gov.au/mbsprimarycareitems) or phone the the Department of Human Services (Medicare) provider enquiry line on 132 150. 
  * Telephone interpreter service: Telephone 131 450 
  * Information regarding the ‘Health Undertaking Service’ from the [Department of Immigration and Border Protection website](http://www.immi.gov.au) or phone the national telephone service enquiry line 131 881 
  * [Royal Australian College of General Practitioners' website ](http://www.racgp.org.au/)
  * [Australasian Society for Infectious Diseases (ASID) Diagnosis, management and prevention of infections in recently arrived refugees (2009)](http://www.asid.net.au)
  * [Australian Refugee Health Practice Guide](http://refugeehealthguide.org.au/)
  * [Victorian Refugee Health Network ](http://refugeehealthnetwork.org.au)

### In this section

    * [ __Autism — Helping Children with Autism program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/autism-children)
    * [ __Disability — Better Start for Children with Disability initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/children_disability)
    * [ __Pregnancy support counselling](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pcd-pregnancy-support.htm)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fmbsprimarycare_mbsitem_refugees
"Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
  * [Claiming from Medicare](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/dhs/medicare)
  * [Diagnostic imaging under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/diagnosticimaging-aboutus.htm)
  * [e-Health records Medicare data](http://www.ehealth.gov.au/internet/ehealth/publishing.nsf/content/home)
  * [Medicare safety net arrangements 1973 to 2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/EMSN_Landing_Page)
  * [Legislation](http://www.legislation.gov.au/)
  * [MBS Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Services Advisory Committee](http://www.msac.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strategicpolicyMTO.htm)
  * [Pathology under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pathology-aboutus-index.htm)
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_ATSI_mbsha_resource_kit)
  * [Radiation therapy under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-roi-aboutus.htm)
  * [Statistics under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicare+Statistics-1)
  * [Specialist video consultations under Medicare](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsonline-telehealth-landing.htm)
  * [Your Questions Answered](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medicare-your-questions-answered)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **fourth** and **last** digits of 443321

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

