Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions) /

# Privacy and your personal information

Information about how the Department of Health and Aged Care will manage
personal information provided in PBS approved supplier forms and the PBS
Approved Suppliers Portal.

 __Page last updated: 11 May 2023

Forms Privacy – Australian Privacy Principle 5 Notification  
PBS Approved Suppliers Portal – Privacy Statement  
  

## Forms Privacy – Australian Privacy Principle 5 Notification

  
The Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care (the department)
is bound by the _Privacy Act 1988_ and the Australian Privacy Principles
(APPs).  
  
The department is collecting personal information that you provide in the
relevant Form for the purposes of assessing the application or processing the
notification (as the case may be). The collection of the personal information
is authorised under the _National Health Act 1953_ (Cth) and delegated
legislation under that Act.  
  
If you do not provide the personal information requested in the relevant Form,
the department may not be able to assess the application or process the
notification (as the case may be).  
  
If necessary for the purposes of administering the Pharmaceutical Benefits
Scheme (PBS) or if required or authorised by law, the department may disclose
the personal information to other organisations and government departments
including:

  * Services Australia; 
  * the Australian Community Pharmacy Authority; and 
  * contracted service providers who deliver PBS programs and services, or undertake activities related to analysis of data and/or Government reporting. 

The department is unlikely to disclose the personal information to overseas
recipients.  
  
If you disclose other people’s personal information to this department (for
example, if you are an appointed representative of the applicant(s) and are
lodging the application on their behalf; or if you are the applicant who is a
registered medical practitioner and, in applying to supply pharmaceutical
benefits, you provide personal information about the practitioner you are
replacing or for whom you are providing locum medical services), in disclosing
that personal information to the department, you undertake that those other
people have:

  * consented to the department collecting and using their personal information for the purposes set out in this notice; and 
  * read and understood this privacy notice.

### Further information about privacy

To view the department’s APP privacy policy, visit our [Privacy
page](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/privacy-policy).  
  
You can obtain a copy of the APP privacy policy by contacting the department
using the contact details set out at the end of this notice. The APP privacy
policy contains information about:

  * how you may access the personal information the department holds about you and how you can seek correction of it; 
  * how you may complain about a breach of 
    * the APPs; or 
    * a registered APP code that binds the department; and 
  * how the department will deal with such a complaint. 

The department can be contacted by:

  * telephone on (02) 6289 1555; 
  * freecall 1800 020 103; or 
  * using the [online enquiries form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us).

## PBS Approved Suppliers Portal – Privacy Statement

  
The Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care (department) is
bound by the _Privacy Act 1988_ and the Australian Privacy Principles (APPs).  

### Collection of personal information

#### Access and use of the Portal

  
The department collects your personal information when you apply to create a
PBS Approved Suppliers Portal (Portal) user profile, and subsequently utilise
the Portal to make and review applications.  
  
This information is collected for the purposes of processing your user
application and administering any permitted access to the Portal, including:

  * confirming your identity and establishing your account credentials 
  * maintaining your contact details 
  * providing technical support and guidance 
  * verifying compliance with the Portal Terms and Conditions of Use 
  * verifying your user application 
  * monitoring and reviewing your use of, and access to data within, the Portal via an audit log 
  * investigating suspected improper use of the Portal 
  * where necessary, revoking your access to the Portal.

If you do not provide sufficient information to enable the creation of a user
profile, you will be unable to make applications through the Portal.  
  

#### Lodgement and processing of an application

The department collects your personal information when you use the Portal to
apply, or apply on behalf of a pharmacist or organisation, to supply
pharmaceutical benefits from a particular location.  
  
Where you appoint a representative to apply on your behalf, you consent to the
department collecting your personal information from that person, including
information:

  * contained in your application, including draft applications that are not submitted 
  * provided in response to requests for further information or supporting documents during the application process.

The department will also collect your personal information with your prior
consent when you are nominated as the contact person for an application, or
your personal information is contained in documents submitted as part of an
application or you are nominated as the payer of the application fee for an
application ( **Payer** ).  
  
The department will collect information confirming payment of the application
fee from Ezypay or the Payer’s financial institution. No credit card or bank
account details will be collected.  
  
As part of processing your application, the department may collect your
information when:

  * receiving comments on your application from pharmacists surrounding the location of the proposed pharmacy 
  * receiving information from the Australian Community Pharmacy Authority (ACPA), including its recommendation on your application.

The collection of personal information, including the name of the applicant
pharmacist, is authorised, as applicable, by ss 90, 91, 91A, 92 and 94 of the
_National Health Act 1953_ (NH Act).  
  
If you do not provide the application information, your application may be
rejected or its assessment delayed.  
  

### Use and disclosure of personal information

The department ordinarily uses and discloses personal information for the
collection purpose.  
  
For each Portal user and Payer, the department will create a record in its
Customer Record Management (CRM) system for administration purposes.  
  
Where you make an application via the Portal, are nominated as the Payer, or
provide comments as a surrounding pharmacy when logged in as a Portal user,
the department may link your application or comment to your existing CRM
record. Limited information in any earlier application linked to your CRM
record may be used or disclosed to the ACPA to assess any current application
to supply pharmaceutical benefits from a particular location. Payer
information will not be disclosed to the ACPA.  
  
Payer information may be linked to previous payer details if there is an exact
match with the organisation name and ABN.  
  
The department usually discloses information provided as part of an
application (excluding Payer information) to:

  * the ACPA to assess the application 
  * other applicants and/or authorised persons for the application.

Only the address of the proposed pharmacy, and the section under which the
application is made, will be disclosed to any surrounding pharmacy invited to
comment on your application.  
  
The department is unlikely to disclose your personal information to overseas
recipients as the Portal terms and conditions requires users to access the
Portal from within Australia only.  

### Access and amendment of information submitted via the Portal

Users can access copies of current and historical applications which they have
made using the Portal. Only the user who submits the application, or a user
who has requested the department manually link the application to their user
profile, will have access to the application.  
  
Users who are an applicant, representative or contact nominee for an
application can request the manual linking of the application to their user
profile by sending an email to
[PBSApprovedSuppliers@health.gov.au](mailto:PBSApprovedSuppliers@health.gov.au)
from the address used to register their user account, along with their full
name and the application tracking ID.  
  
Once an application is submitted, it cannot be amended unless it is considered
invalid by the department and returned to the submitter for resubmission.  
  
Users can also view and update their contact details via the Portal.  

### Further information about privacy

To view the department’s APP privacy policy, visit our [Privacy
page](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/privacy-policy).  
  
You can obtain a copy of the APP privacy policy by contacting the department
using the contact details set out at the end of this notice. The APP privacy
policy contains information about:

  * how you may otherwise access the personal information the department holds about you and how you can seek correction of it, and 
  * how you may complain about a breach of: 
    * the APPs 
    * a registered APP code that binds the department, and
  * how the department will deal with such a complaint. 

You can contact the department by:

  * telephone on (02) 6289 1555 
  * freecall 1800 020 103, or 
  * using the [online enquiries form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us).

### In this section

  * [ __New or relocating pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa)
  * [ __Application Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-application-fees)
  * [ __Deactivation of an approved pharmacist - guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/deactivation-of-an-approvedppharmacist-guidelines)
  * [ __Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
  * [ __Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms)
  * [ __Minister’s discretionary power to approve a pharmacist](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ministerial-discretion)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers - Archived news updates](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-updates)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
  *  **[ __Privacy and your personal information](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/form-privacy-note)**
  * [ __Terms of Use for PBS Approved Suppliers Portal](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-terms-of-use-for-pharmacy-approvals-portal)
  * [ __Contact us](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-contact-us)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fform-
privacy-note "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
  * [Pharmacists](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmacists)
  * [Hospital Authorities](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hospital-authorities)
  * [Medical Practitioners](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-practitioners)
  * [Application Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-application-fees)
  * [Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
  * [Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms)
  * [Minister’s discretionary power to approve a pharmacist](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ministerial-discretion)
  * [New or relocating pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa)
  * [Archived news updates](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-updates)
  * [Contact us](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-contact-us)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **fourth** and **last** digits of 917076

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

