Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1) /
  * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1) /
  * [Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicines-1) /
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmaceutical+Benefits+Scheme+%28PBS%29-1) /
  * [Alternative Arrangements for Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Alternative+Arrangements+for+Medicines-1) /

# Aboriginal Health Services - Section 100 - Frequently Asked Questions Remote
Area Aboriginal Health Services (RAAHS) Program

Information Sheets on the s100 Remote Area Aboriginal Health Services (RAAHS)
Program

__Page last updated: 09 April 2019

## Supply of Pharmaceutical Benefit Scheme medicines to remote area Aboriginal
Health Services

### Responses to frequently asked questions

### 1\. What do these arrangements seek to achieve?

These arrangements seek to address barriers experienced by people living in
remote areas of Australia in accessing essential medicines through the PBS.  
  
These barriers can be summarised as:

  * delays experienced in obtaining medicines with the standard prescription-based supply chain; 
  * difficulties experienced in demonstrating eligibility for concessional benefits under the PBS; and 
  * affordability issues.

### 2\. Who is eligible to receive PBS medicines under these arrangements?

The arrangements are targeted at clients of eligible remote area Aboriginal
Health Services. A client may or may not identify as an Aboriginal or Torres
Strait Islander person.  
  

### 3\. Why are these arrangements restricted to remote areas?

There is evidence to suggest that a proportion of Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander people in a number of areas of Australia incur difficulties in
accessing mainstream programs. However, barriers are greatest in remote areas
where basic services may not be available in close proximity to established
centres of population and where demand for services exceeds the resources,
structures and personnel required to meet that need. Isolation from supply
points such as community pharmacies and sporadic medical coverage have
hindered appropriate access in these areas to essential medicines.  
  

### 4\. What about the supply of non-PBS medicines?

These arrangements cover essential, cost effective medicines which are
currently listed in the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. Excluding:

  1. medicines that can only be supplied under s100 of the Act, including Highly Specialised Drugs. 
  2. emergency drug (Prescriber's Bag) supplies. 
  3. Medicines which are Schedule 8 (‘Controlled drugs, eg Opioid Analgesics’), as defined by the drugs and poisons legislation in the relevant State or Territory..

  

### 5\. What safeguards are there for controlling bulk medicines in remote
communities?

Participating remote area services must comply with strict conditions,
including compliance with State/Territory requirements relating to the
prescribing, storage and supply of medicines. Services not meeting these
requirements are not approved to participate.  
  

### 6\. Who can supply medicines to remote health services under these
arrangements?

Medicines are supplied by approved community pharmacies and approved hospital
authorities.  
  

### 7\. Why are community pharmacies involved?

Community pharmacies are well placed to act as local supply points for
medicines, and to provide value adding services to remote communities such as
medicines information, medication reviews and education.  
  

### 8\. Is participation in these arrangements compulsory?

No. Some services may wish to remain with their current supply arrangements.  
  

### 9\. When did these arrangements begin?

Participation in these arrangements was offered to the Aboriginal community-
controlled sector in January 1999.  
  
Remote services that are operated by the States and Territories are also able
to participate, following commitments by State/Territory governments to
maintain current outlays directed towards healthcare services for Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander peoples.  
  
Currently more than 160 community controlled and state/territory operated
remote health services benefit from improved access to PBS medicines through
participation in these arrangements.  
  
Further information, please [email the
Department](mailto:S100-remotepharmsupport@health.gov.au)
(S100-remotepharmsupport@health.gov.au)  

### In this section

  * [ __Aboriginal Health Services and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fhealth-
pbs-indigenous-faq "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
  * [Clinical Trials](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Clinical-Trials)
  * [Complementary Medicines](http://www.tga.gov.au/industry/cm.htm)
  * [Medical Devices](http://www.tga.gov.au/industry/devices.htm)
  * [Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicines-1)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmacy-2)
    * [Product Recall](http://www.tga.gov.au/safety/recalls.htm)
    * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmaceutical+Benefits+Scheme+%28PBS%29-1)
      * [Alternative Arrangements for Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Alternative+Arrangements+for+Medicines-1)
    * [National Medicines Policy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National+Medicines+Policy-1)

**Related Information**  
These links provide access to more specific PBS s100 information.  
  
[>> Eligibility Criteria](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-
indigenous-eligibility)  
[>> Obtaining pharmaceutical benefit
items](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-info)  
[>> Dispensing](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-
info)  
[>> Remuneration and claims system for
Pharmacists](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-
remuneration)  
[>> Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
pbs-indigenous-faq)  
[>> s100 Information Sheet](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-
indigenous-info)  
[>> Application Form](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-
indigenous-application-form)  
[>> RRMA
Search](http://www.doctorconnect.gov.au/internet/otd/publishing.nsf/Content/locator)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **third** , **fourth** and **last** digits of 700201

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

