Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1) /
  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) /

# Victorian Health Plan

Across Victoria, the Australian Government is investing in a range of medical
research, infrastructure, mental health and primary care initiatives that will
mean real, on-the-ground health benefits for all Victorians.

 __Page last updated: 25 March 2019

[PDF printable version of _Victorian Health Plan_ (PDF 1541
KB)](FFF9D12026C4A282CA2583C7007E9855/$File/Vic%20Health%20Plan.pdf)  

## Victoria – Global Health and Medical Research Hub

  
Across Victoria, the Australian Government is investing in a range of medical
research, infrastructure, mental health and primary care initiatives that will
mean real, on-the-ground health benefits for all Victorians.  
  
The Australian Government’s Victorian Health Plan will improve lives, protect
lives and save lives. The Victorian Health Plan builds on a more than 55 per
cent increase in Commonwealth funding to Victorian hospitals, record bulk
billing and more than 2,000 new medicines subsidised through the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.  
  
The $496 million Plan establishes Victoria as a global health and medical
research hub that will support our doctors, nurses and brightest researchers
in treating patients and in finding new diagnoses, cutting edge treatments and
breakthrough cures, benefitting not only Australia, but the world.  
  
Through this hub, we will deliver:

    * State-of-the-art cancer research and treatment ($116 million) 
    * New hospital infrastructure worth $152 million, including new emergency departments for families and children worth $40 million 
    * Medical research into new medicines and treatment ($112 million) 
    * More mental health care, especially for our young people ($16 million) 
    * More MRI units for patients when and where they need them ($100 million)

### Cancer infrastructure

  
The Government is committed to investing in vital infrastructure and services
to support Australians fighting cancer.  
  

#### Establishing the Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre National Centre of
Excellence in Cellular Immunotherapy ($80 million)

  
The first Australian Centre of Excellence in Cellular Immunotherapy (and CAR
T-cell therapy) will revolutionise cancer treatment and will enable Australia
to become a global leader in cellular therapy treatment, research and
manufacturing.  
  
Immunotherapies and CAR T-cell therapy are a new frontier in cancer treatment
that harness the body’s own immune system to fight cancer.  
  
Our funding for this centre will support:

    * Clinical research and trials 
    * A new national network and clinical registry for cellular immunotherapy 
    * A dedicated 14 bed/chair cellular immunotherapy clinical unit 
    * Expanding cell manufacturing facilities 
    * Accelerating commercialisation – bringing new discoveries to market

### Hospital infrastructure

  
The Government is committed to ensuring all Australians can access safe, high
quality and efficient hospital care.  

#### Paediatric Emergency Departments ($40 million)

  
We will build four new paediatric emergency departments to provide better care
for children when they need it most.  
  
This will ensure children and families can be together, and treated by doctors
and nurses, without being exposed to trauma, anger, violence and drugs in the
main emergency departments.  
  
We will build new paediatric emergency departments within existing emergency
departments at:

    * Geelong University Hospital ($10 million) 
    * Maroondah Hospital ($10 million) 
    * Casey Hospital ($10 million) 
    * Frankston Hospital ($10 million)

Benefits will include:

    * Improved patient health and wellbeing 
    * Better ability to respond to regional demand 
    * Safe and appropriate care for child patients 
    * More time to treat children 
    * Better experience for patients, families and staff

### Research institute infrastructure

  
The Government provides unprecedented funding to health and medical research,
which is the single best way to advance and deliver the latest, highest
quality care.  

#### Monash University/Peninsula Health

  
Health Futures Hub ($32 million) Peninsula Health and Monash University will
partner to establish an Australian-first Health Futures Hub with research
focused on community issues including aged care, addiction and mental health.  
  
This will mean that the Mornington and Frankston communities will see the
direct benefit from research that is undertaken in their community, for their
community.  
  
This unique setting will test new models of care and interventions to improve
health outcomes in these crucial areas, and roll them out around the nation
and the world. State-of-the-art ‘Living Labs’ will be built to simulate
innovative assisted living and rehabilitation technologies.  

#### Alfred Health and Monash University

  
Australian Clinical Trials Network ‘TrialHub’ ($24.6 million) The Australian
Government will support a new Australian Clinical Trials Network’s TrialHub.
It will boost opportunities for patients across Australia to participate in
clinical trials and receive treatment as close as possible to their homes,
regardless of where they live.  
  
Partnerships will be established in regional areas, with hospitals in Rosebud,
Casey and Bendigo in Victoria to be the first hospitals to join the TrialHub.  
  
The TrialHub’s initial focus will be on rare cancers and other rare diseases,
prostate cancer and melanoma.  

#### Aikenhead Centre for Medical Discovery ($30 million)

  
The Government will fund Australia’s first hospital based biomedical
engineering research and training hub. Located at St Vincent’s Hospital,
Melbourne, the Aikenhead Centre for Medical Discovery will bring together the
expertise of five universities and four research institutes, to create new
treatments that improve health outcomes and save lives.  
  
This innovative hub combines medicine, engineering, technology and industry to
develop new projects, new solutions and new devices.  
  
This research will directly impact the care delivered in the community and
hospitals and improve the quality of life of people living with a range of
health conditions such as arthritis, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer,
mental health and dementia.  

#### Walter and Eliza Hall Institute Drug Discovery Centre ($25 million)

  
The Government will fund a new national Drug Discovery Centre at Melbourne’s
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research. The centre aims to turn
scientific discoveries into new medicines faster.  
  
It will help bring lifesaving medicines to patients with the aid of advanced
robotic gear. Investment in robotics equipment will enable world-class
researchers to screen hundreds of thousands of chemicals and quickly identify
which ones can alter processes in the body that can contribute to disease or a
condition.  
  
This discovery provides the starting point to develop new medicines to treat
both common and rare diseases. The centre will fill a known research need in
the drug discovery pipeline.  

### Mental health and primary care

  
The Government is committed to ensuring young people have access to mental
health services in their local areas. Three-quarters of all mental illness
manifests in people under the age of 25.  

#### headspace ($16 million)

  
We are investing over $16 million in new headspace centres across Victoria to
provide crucial mental health support for young people. The funding will
support new services including:

    * Wangaratta 
    * Rosebud 
    * Ocean Grove 
    * Monash 
    * Echuca 
    * Sale 
    * Pakenham 
    * Lilydale 
    * Whittlesea

headspace is the Government’s preferred method of service delivery for young
people living with mental illness. It provides tailored and holistic mental
health support, working closely with young people at a crucial time in their
lives to help get them back on track and strengthen their ability to manage
their mental health in the future. In 2017–18, more than 24,000 young
Victorians accessed headspace services.  
The Government is providing more MRI services, giving patients access to
Medicare-subsidised lifesaving scans for cancer, as well as stroke, heart and
other medical conditions.  

#### MRI ($100 million)

  
We are providing new or upgraded units in:

    * DiagnostiCare, Keilor East (upgrade) 
    * Royal Women’s Hospital, Parkville (upgrade) 
    * Epworth Medical Imaging, Epworth Hospital, Geelong 
    * Imaging@Olympic Park, Melbourne (upgrade) 
    * Cabrini Hospital, Brighton 
    * Northern Hospital, Epping (upgrade) 
    * MIA Warringal Radiology, Heidelberg 
    * MIA Lilydale Radiology, Lilydale (upgrade) 
    * Holmesglen Hospital, Moorabbin 
    * St John of God Hospital, Berwick

These are in addition to two units announced last year at Sale Hospital and
Monash Children’s Hospital, Clayton.  
  
We are investing more than $100 million for Victoria in our national MRI
expansion program.  
  
We are committed to providing essential health care for Victorians, where and
when they need it. The Victorian Health Plan ensures we will deliver on this
commitment.  

### In this section

  * [ __A-Z listing](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [ __Accessible mental health services for people with an intellectual disability: a guide for providers](http://3dn.unsw.edu.au/the-guide)
  * [ __ACT Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/act-health-plan.htm)
  * [ __Australian Secondary School Students’ use of tobacco, alcohol, and over-the-counter and illicit substances in 2014](http://www.nationaldrugstrategy.gov.au/internet/drugstrategy/Publishing.nsf/content/australian-secondary-students-alcohol-drug-survey)
  * [ __Dementia - National Framework for Action, 2015-2019](https://agedcare.health.gov.au/ageing-and-aged-care-older-people-their-families-and-carers-dementia/national-framework-for-action-on-dementia-2015-2019)
  * [ __Independent Review of the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Independent_Review_AIHW)
  * [ __Nursing Workforce Sustainability - Improving Nurse Retention and Productivity report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/nursing-workforce-sustainability-improving-nurse-retention-and-productivity)
  * [ __Review of Medicare Locals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/review-medicare-locals-final-report)
  * [ __Tasmanian Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tas-health-plan.htm)
  *  **[ __Victorian Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/vic-health-plan.htm)**

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fvic-
health-plan.htm "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
  * [Ordering publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-ordering)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **third** and **last** digits of 533309

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

