Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fportal-
Health%20personnel "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Health topic quickview](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/portal) /

# Health topic quickview: Health personnel

A collection of Health personnel-related information in the Health website.

 __Page last updated: 29 May 2023 (this page is generated automatically and
reflects updates to other content within the website)

## A quickview of health information

Select a topic

Please selectAboriginal and Torres Strait Islander HealthAlcoholAnnual
reportsAntibiotic resistanceArthritisAsthmaAutismBlood and Blood
productsBreastfeedingBudgetCancerCardiovascular diseasesCarersCasemixChild
healthChronic diseaseClinical TrialsCommunicable diseasesCouncilsDental
healthDiabetesDiagnostic imagingDiseases and conditionsDrugsDrugs and
substance abusee-HealthEmergency managementEnvironmental healthExerciseEye
healthFood standardsFraudGeneral practiceGP Super ClinicsGrantsHealth care
systemsHealth insuranceHealth personnelHealth promotionHealth TechnologyHealth
workforceHearingHepatitis BHepatitis CHIVHIV/AIDSHormonesHospitalsIllegal
drugsImmunisationInfant HealthInfluenzaInjury preventionLegislationMaternal
HealthMedical indemnityMedical Treatment OverseasMedicareMedicinal
cannabisMen's healthMental healthMidwivesNursingNutritionObesityOncologyOrgan
and tissue donationPalliative carePandemicPathologyPersonally controlled
electronic health recordsPharmaceutical benefitsPharmacyPhysical
activityPrescribed drugsPrimary health carePrivate Health
InsuranceProfessional indemnityPublic awarenessRadiationRegulation and Red
Tape ReductionResearch and developmentRural health servicesSexual HealthSpeech
pathologySportStatisticsSuicide preventionTobaccoWomen's healthYouth health

## Program/Initiatives

04 Apr 2023

[Remote Vocational Training
Scheme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-xref-rvts)

22 Mar 2022

[Bonded Medical Places Scheme Return of Service Application Form - Part A and
Part B](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/bonded-medical-places-scheme-
return-service-form)

22 Mar 2022

[Bonded Medical Places (BMP) Scheme -
Summary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/bonded-medical-places-summary)

22 Mar 2022

[Bonded Medical Places (BMP) Scheme Letter offering
MMM](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/bmp-scheme-letter-offering-mmm)

22 Mar 2022

[Bonded Medical Places commonly asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-bonded-medical-places-
scheme-frequently-asked-questions)

22 Mar 2022

[Bonded Medical Places (BMP)
Scheme](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-bmp)

22 Mar 2022

[Medical Rural Bonded Scholarship (MRBS) Scheme
2015](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-mrb)

22 Mar 2022

[BMP Scheme â€” Enrolment process for
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-bonded-medical-places-scheme-
application-form)

22 Mar 2022

[BMP Scheme â€” Information booklet for
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-bonded-medical-places-scheme-
information-booklet-BMP)

22 Mar 2022

[Bonded Medical Places Scheme 2016 â€“
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/BMP-2016)

22 Mar 2022

[Bonded Medical Places Scheme 2015 or
earlier](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/BMP-2015)

22 Mar 2022

[BMP Scheme â€” Sample deed of agreement
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-bonded-medical-places-scheme-
deed-of-agreement-sample-BMP)

14 Dec 2021

[Australian General Practice Training programme
(AGPT)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-agpt)

14 Dec 2021

[Royal Flying Doctor Service (RFDS)
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/royal-flying-doctor-service-
programme)

14 Dec 2021

[Rural Health Multidisciplinary Training (RHMT)
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/rural-health-multidisciplinary-
training)

14 Dec 2021

[Rural Locum Assistance Program (Rural
LAP)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/rural-locum-assistance-program)

14 Dec 2021

[Specialist Training Program Colleges
Websites](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/specialist-training-program-
colleges-websites)

14 Dec 2021

[Rural Australia Medical Undergraduate Scholarship
(RAMUS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-ramus)

14 Dec 2021

[Specialist Training Program
(STP)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-xref-spec)

14 Dec 2021

[Specialist College Presidents and CEOs Contact
Details](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-spec-specialist-college-
presidents-ceos-contact-details)

14 Dec 2021

[Prevocational General Practice Placements
Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-pgppp)

14 Dec 2021

[Specialist Training Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-spec)

12 May 2021

[Nursing and Allied Health Scholarship and Support Scheme
(NAHSSS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-nahsss)

19 Mar 2021

[General Practice Rural Incentives Program
Guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/general_practice_rural_incentives_programme-
programme-guidelines)

19 Mar 2021

[General Practice Rural Incentives Program
(GPRIP)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/general_practice_rural_incentives_programme)

06 Jul 2017

[Rural Pharmacy Workforce Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-
pr-rpwp)

[All Program/Initiatives __](programs-initiatives-all)  

## Publications

08 Feb 2022

[Medical Training Review Panel: fifteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-15)

08 Feb 2022

[Medical Training Review Panel: seventeenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-17)

08 Feb 2022

[Medical Training Review Panel: sixteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-16)

14 Dec 2021

[Medical Training Review Panel: thirteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-13)

14 Dec 2021

[Commonwealth response to the Senate Community Affairs Committee Final Report
2009: National registration and accreditation scheme for doctors and other
health workers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hwd-pubs-
nars-2009-final-report)

14 Dec 2021

[Medical Training Review Panel: fourteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-14)

23 Nov 2021

[Report on the 2010 review of the Medicare provider number
legislation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-provleg-10-rpt)

19 Mar 2021

[Independent Expert
Panel](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/general_practice_rural_incentives_programme-
independent-expert-panel)

17 Jul 2019

[Our Enterprise Agreement
2016-19](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/enterprise-agreement-2016-2019)

17 Jul 2019

[Our Enterprise Agreement
2011-14](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/enterprise_agreement-2011-14)

24 Mar 2017

[Medical Education and Training in Australia  
National Medical Training Advisory Network  
First edition](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-education-and-
training-in-australia-national-medical-training-advisory-network-first-
edition)

05 Oct 2016

[Medical Training Review Panel: nineteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-19)

16 Jun 2015

[Medical Training Review Panel: eighteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-18)

23 Jun 2014

[Medical Training Review Panel:
17th](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-17)

13 May 2013

[Medical Training Review Panel: sixteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-16)

14 May 2012

[Medical Training Review Panel: fifteenth
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-15)

05 Apr 2011

[Medical Training Review Panel: Fourteenth
Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pubs-mtrp-14)

01 May 2007

[Review of the Professional Services Review Scheme - Report of the Steering
Committee - May 2007](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-mbd-
psr_report.htm)

[All Publications __](health-publicat.htm)  

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **third** , **fifth** and **last** digits of 945360

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

Ã—

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

Â© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

