Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1) /
  * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1) /
  * [Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicines-1) /
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmaceutical+Benefits+Scheme+%28PBS%29-1) /
  * [Alternative Arrangements for Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Alternative+Arrangements+for+Medicines-1) /

# Eligibility Criteria

Information Sheet on the s100 Remote Area Aboriginal Health Services (RAAHS)
Program

__Page last updated: 09 April 2019

## Supply of pharmaceutical benefits to remote area Aboriginal Health Services
(AHSs)

  
Since 1999 special arrangements have operated under the provision of section
100 of the National Health Act 1953 for the supply of Pharmaceutical Benefits
Scheme (PBS) medicines to eligible Remote Area AHSs (RAAHS).  
  
Under the RAAHS Program, clients of approved RAAHSs are able to receive
medicines directly from the AHS at the point of consultation, without the need
for a normal PBS prescription form, and without charge.  
  
Participating AHSs order required PBS items from pharmacies, which transmit
claims to the Department of Human Services for reimbursement. There is no need
for AHSs to make payments to pharmacies for medicines obtained under these
arrangements.  
  
The eligibility criteria for participation in the program are given below.  
  

### Eligibility criteria

  

  1. The Health Service must have a primary function of meeting the health care needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. 
  2. The clinic, or other health care facility, operated by the AHS from which pharmaceuticals are supplied to patients must be in a remote zone as defined in the Rural, Remote and Metropolitan Areas Classification 1991 Census Edition. 
  3. The AHS must employ or be in a contractual relationship with health professionals who are suitably qualified under relevant State/Territory legislation to supply all medications covered by the Section 100 arrangements and undertake that all supply of benefit items will be under the direction of such qualified persons. 
  4. The clinic or other health care facility operated by the AHS from which pharmaceuticals are supplied must have storage facilities that will:

  1. prevent access by unauthorised persons; 
  2. maintain the quality (eg chemical and biological stability and sterility) of the pharmaceutical; and 
  3. comply with any special conditions specified by the manufacturer of the pharmaceutical.

  
*The eligible Rural, Remote and Metropolitan Areas (RRMA) are RRMA 6 and RRMA 7. The RRMA classification for a location by State and/or postcode can be found at RRMA search.  
  
Further information, please [email the
Department](mailto:S100-remotepharmsupport@health.gov.au)
(S100-remotepharmsupport@health.gov.au)[](mailto:pbs-indigenous@health.gov.au)  
  

### In this section

  * [ __Aboriginal Health Services and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fhealth-
pbs-indigenous-eligibility "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
  * [Clinical Trials](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Clinical-Trials)
  * [Complementary Medicines](http://www.tga.gov.au/industry/cm.htm)
  * [Medical Devices](http://www.tga.gov.au/industry/devices.htm)
  * [Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicines-1)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmacy-2)
    * [Product Recall](http://www.tga.gov.au/safety/recalls.htm)
    * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmaceutical+Benefits+Scheme+%28PBS%29-1)
      * [Alternative Arrangements for Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Alternative+Arrangements+for+Medicines-1)
    * [National Medicines Policy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National+Medicines+Policy-1)

**Related Information**  
These links provide access to more specific PBS s100 information.  
  
[>> Eligibility Criteria](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-
indigenous-eligibility)  
[>> Obtaining pharmaceutical benefit
items](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-info)  
[>> Dispensing](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-
info)  
[>> Remuneration and claims system for
Pharmacists](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-
remuneration)  
[>> Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
pbs-indigenous-faq)  
[>> s100 Information Sheet](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-
indigenous-info)  
[>> Application Form](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-
indigenous-application-form)  
[>> RRMA
Search](http://www.doctorconnect.gov.au/internet/otd/publishing.nsf/Content/locator)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **third** and **last** digits of 946897

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

