Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro) /
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care) /

# Health assessment for people aged 45 to 49 years who are at risk of
developing chronic disease

Fact Sheet

 __Page last updated: 26 February 2014

[Health assessment for people aged 45 to 49 years who are at risk of
developing chronic disease (PDF 67
KB)](A91B76A85AD1244CCA257BF0001FEAF9/$File/45%20to%2049%20years%20health%20assessment,%20Jan%202014.pdf)  
If you have any queries related to these items or difficulty accessing the
PDFs above, please contact [_the MBD
webmaster_](mailto:mbd.web@health.gov.au).  
  
A medical practitioner may select MBS item **701 (brief), 703 (standard), 705
(long)** or **707 (prolonged)** to undertake an assessment of a person aged 45
to 49 years (inclusive) with a chronic disease risk factor, depending on the
length of the consultation which will be determined by the complexity of the
patient’s presentation.  
  
The health assessment is for a patient who, in the clinical judgement of the
medical practitioner and based on the identification of a specific risk
factor, is at risk of developing a chronic disease.  
  
A health assessment at this stage of life can assist patients to make the
necessary lifestyle changes to prevent or delay the onset of chronic disease.  

### Chronic disease risk factors

A chronic disease or condition is one that has been, or is likely to be
present for at least six months, including (but not limited to) asthma,
cancer, cardiovascular illness, diabetes mellitus, a mental health condition,
arthritis or a musculoskeletal condition.  
  
The decision that a patient is at risk of developing a chronic disease is a
clinical judgement made by the GP. However, at least one risk factor must be
identified. Risk factors that the GP may consider include, but are not limited
to:

  * lifestyle risk factors, such as smoking, physical inactivity, poor nutrition or alcohol use; 
  * biomedical risk factors, such as high cholesterol, high blood pressure, impaired glucose metabolism or excess weight; and 
  * a family history of a chronic disease.

### Components of the health assessment

The health assessment must include:

  * information collection, including taking a patient history and undertaking examinations and investigations as clinically required; 
  * making an overall assessment of the patient’s health, including the patient’s readiness to make lifestyle changes; 
  * initiating interventions and referrals as clinically indicated; 
  * providing advice and information; including strategies to achieve lifestyle and behaviour changes; 
  * keeping a record of the health assessment, and offering the patient a written report about the health assessment, with recommendations about matters covered by the health assessment; and 
  * offering the patient’s carer (if any, and if the medical practitioner considers it appropriate and the patient agrees) a copy of the report or extracts of the report relevant to the carer.

### Restrictions on providing the health assessment

A Medicare rebate is payable once only for each eligible patient.  
  
The Medicare rebate is not payable in conjunction with another consultation on
the same day, except where it is clinically required (ie. the patient has an
acute problem that needs to be managed separately from the assessment), and is
not available to admitted patients of a hospital or day-hospital facility.  

### Other Requirements

In circumstances where the medical practitioner is unsure whether the patient
is at risk of developing a chronic disease, the medical practitioner may
choose to determine first whether a patient has a risk factor (billed under an
appropriate general attendance item), and if so, undertake a health assessment
during a subsequent visit.  
  
For patients found to have an existing chronic condition, the medical
practitioner should use his/her clinical judgement to determine whether the
patient should receive a health assessment or be managed through other
services such as the MBS Chronic Disease Management items.  
  
People aged 45 to 49 years (inclusive) who have had a health assessment may
also receive a type 2 diabetes risk evaluation if they are at high risk of
developing type 2 diabetes and meet the relevant eligibility criteria.  

### Guidelines and Resources

For more information about MBS health assessments including a sample proforma
for this health assessment, visit the Department of Health website at the MBS
Primary Care Items page or phone the Department of Human Services (Medicare)
provider enquiry line on 132 150.  
  
For detailed information about item descriptors and explanatory notes visit
the Department of Health website at [MBS
Online](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicare-
Benefits-Schedule-MBS-1).  
  
Medical practitioners are encouraged to utilise relevant guidelines and
resources available on[ the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners
(RACGP) websit](http://www.racgp.org.au/your-practice/guidelines/)e  

### In this section

  * [ __Autism — Helping Children with Autism program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/autism-children)
  * [ __Disability — Better Start for Children with Disability initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/children_disability)
  * [ __Pregnancy support counselling](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pcd-pregnancy-support.htm)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fmbsprimarycare_mbsitem701_703_705_707
"Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
  * [Claiming from Medicare](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/dhs/medicare)
  * [Diagnostic imaging under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/diagnosticimaging-aboutus.htm)
  * [e-Health records Medicare data](http://www.ehealth.gov.au/internet/ehealth/publishing.nsf/content/home)
  * [Medicare safety net arrangements 1973 to 2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/EMSN_Landing_Page)
  * [Legislation](http://www.legislation.gov.au/)
  * [MBS Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Services Advisory Committee](http://www.msac.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strategicpolicyMTO.htm)
  * [Pathology under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pathology-aboutus-index.htm)
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_ATSI_mbsha_resource_kit)
  * [Radiation therapy under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-roi-aboutus.htm)
  * [Statistics under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicare+Statistics-1)
  * [Specialist video consultations under Medicare](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsonline-telehealth-landing.htm)
  * [Your Questions Answered](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medicare-your-questions-answered)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **fifth** and **last** digits of 831269

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

