Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1) /
  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) /

# Tasmanian Health Plan

The Australian Government is supporting Tasmanians by investing in new mental
health and primary care initiatives, new health infrastructure and new medical
research that will mean real, on‑the‑ground benefits for all Tasmanians.

 __Page last updated: 10 April 2019

[Tasmanian Health Plan (PDF 1963
KB)](0BB3C770DC55893ECA2583D8001E67A0/$File/TAS%20%20FINAL.pdf)

## Improved health care for all Tasmanians

The Australian Government is supporting Tasmanians by investing in new mental
health and primary care initiatives, new health infrastructure and new medical
research that will mean real, on-the-ground benefits for all Tasmanians.

The Australian Government’s Tasmanian Health Plan will improve lives, protect
lives and save lives.

Funding for Tasmanian public hospitals will increase from $425 million a year
to $525 million under a new hospitals agreement. This is in addition to the
$730.4 million provided to support Mersey Community Hospital, record bulk
billing in Tasmania and more than 2,000 new medicines subsidised through the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.

The $91.9 million Tasmanian Health Plan significantly strengthens Tasmania’s
health system by addressing health care needs, filling critical service needs
and providing affordable and accessible health services for more Tasmanians,
where and when they need them.

Through this Plan, we will deliver:

  * Greater hospital and health services and infrastructure ($35.1 million)
  * New cancer infrastructure ($4.4 million)
  * More MRI units for patients when and where they need them ($4.7 million)
  * Two extra diagnostic mammography units ($3 million)
  * Medical research ($12.4 million)
  * More mental health support ($24.4 million)
  * Improved alcohol and drug support ($7.4 million)
  * Better access to primary care ($500,000)

## Primary and preventive health

We are committed to addressing the health challenge of our time – chronic
disease. More than half of people over 65 have at least two chronic health
conditions such as blood pressure, diabetes, heart condition, asthma and back
pain.

### MRI ($4.7 million)

Tasmania will get a new bulk-billed MRI service at Devonport, with funding of
$4.7 million. A new MRI unit will allow patients to access Medicare-subsidised
lifesaving scans for cancer, as well as stroke, heart and other medical
conditions. The rebate for diagnostic services, including ultrasound and
x-rays, is also increasing.

### Diagnostic mammography ($3 million)

Tasmanians will have improved access to breast cancer diagnosis services with
two additional diagnostic mammography units, one in Hobart and one in
Launceston. The Government is providing $3 million for the units, delivering
X-ray examination of breast cancers, particularly in women older than 40
years. Earlier diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer can save lives.

### Support for more drug and alcohol workers ($1.1 million)

We will provide $1.1 million for three more mental health and alcohol and drug
support workers to help young Tasmanians work through their addiction. They
will work within existing health services in Northern Tasmania.

### City Mission drug and alcohol rehabilitation ($6.3 million)

Residential rehabilitation services provide people with safe and structured
support to help them overcome drug and alcohol misuse. We will invest $6.3
million to build a new 10 bed facility in the greater Burnie region and to
establish a new eight bed residential rehabilitation service in Circular Head.
This investment will address capacity issues at the Serenity House residential
drug and alcohol rehabilitation ‘time out’ facility at Sulphur Creek.

### Strength2Strength program ($0.5 million)

We will allocate $500,000 for the Tasmanian Primary Health Network to engage
experts such as physiotherapists and personal trainers to run the innovative
‘Strength2Strength’ program in North West Tasmania that focuses on strength
and exercise treatment to improve chronic health and reduce hospital demand.

## Hospital and cancer services

We are funding health and hospital facilities to ensure contemporary, best
practice services for Tasmanians.

### Elective surgery and primary care support ($34.7 million)

The Government is committed to improving health outcomes for Tasmanians with a
$34.7 million package to reduce the time Tasmanian patients wait for elective
surgery and support Tasmanians in rural and remote locations. This will enable
an additional 6,000 surgeries and endoscopies to be provided. Up to $14.7
million will support the Tasmanian Rural Health Fund (TazReach) for the
delivery of outreach specialist health services.

### Birthing suites ($0.4 million)

The Government is providing $400,000 for capital works at the birthing suite
at Launceston General Hospital. Receiving care in an up-to-date birthing suite
will help women and their families feel more supported, so that labour and
birth can progress as smoothly and naturally as possible.

### Linear accelerator ($4.4 million)

The Government is helping Tasmanians in their fight against cancer. A second
linear accelerator machine at the North West Centre at Burnie, funded by the
Australian Government, will take the fight against cancer to a new level.
Breast cancer patients will save around $1,500 with MRIs and PET scans now
covered under Medicare.

## Research

### University of Tasmania/Menzies Institute Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Flagship
Program ($10 million)

The Government will support the Menzies MS Flagship Program with a $10 million
investment.

The Menzies Institute, in partnership with the University of Tasmania, will
continue its important work to improve outcomes and quality of life for more
than 25,000 Australians living with MS, as well as research into cures and
prevention for the disease. Tasmania has the highest prevalence of people with
MS in Australia, making it a compelling site for this research initiative.
This funding will expand MS research capacity and capability.

### Preventive health research at the University of Tasmania ($2.4 million)

Our investment of $2.4 million will support research focusing on better
coordinated care for people with chronic and complex disease, helping them to
self-manage their condition and to keep them out of hospital.

## Mental health

The Government is committed to ensuring people in Tasmania who have mental
health concerns can access high-quality support where and when they need it.
We are delivering more frontline services and innovative solutions to ensure
that everyone has the best possible care when facing mental health challenges.

### headspace ($3.5 million)

We will invest $3.5 million over four years for two headspace centres to
support youth mental health services in Tasmania. This will upgrade the
Devonport satellite service to a centre and establish a new satellite service
in Burnie.

headspace is the Australian Government’s preferred method of service delivery
for young people living with mental illness. It provides tailored and holistic
mental health support, working closely with young people at a crucial time in
their lives. In 2017–18, more than 3,000 young Tasmanians accessed headspace
services.

### Adult mental health centre ($10.5 million)

The Government is boosting mental health support for adults, with a trial of
adult community mental health centres. A new centre in Launceston will provide
a supportive environment where people can receive psychological, counselling
or other mental health services, without requiring a prior appointment. The
centre will operate over extended hours, seven days a week, and will provide a
more welcoming alternative to emergency departments for those in crisis.
Individuals will also be connected to existing community mental health
services in their local area to ensure ongoing, integrated care.

### Bushfire support ($0.4 million)

The Government is providing $400,000 to support Tasmanians, particularly in
the Huon Valley, affected by the recent devastating bushfires. The Tasmania
Primary Health Network will use this funding boost to increase the capacity of
current counselling services, referral services and mental health support.

### A new residential eating disorder clinic ($10 million)

Around one million Australians live with an eating disorder. Eating disorders
are complex conditions which have one of the highest mortality rates of any
psychiatric illness.

Proper treatment of the most severe eating disorders requires 24/7 intensive
care. To help deliver this necessary support for the first time in Australia,
the Australian Government will provide $10 million to establish a residential
eating disorder centre in Hobart.

This centre will provide specialist care to people experiencing eating
disorders, through in-patient best practice treatment programs. The centre
will also help advance the way eating disorders are diagnosed and treated
through training, education and advocacy.

Patients will also benefit from our historic $110 million investment in
Medicare to provide up to 40 rebatable psychological and 20 dietetic sessions
per year for people suffering from an eating disorder.

### In this section

  * [ __A-Z listing](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [ __Accessible mental health services for people with an intellectual disability: a guide for providers](http://3dn.unsw.edu.au/the-guide)
  * [ __ACT Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/act-health-plan.htm)
  * [ __Australian Secondary School Students’ use of tobacco, alcohol, and over-the-counter and illicit substances in 2014](http://www.nationaldrugstrategy.gov.au/internet/drugstrategy/Publishing.nsf/content/australian-secondary-students-alcohol-drug-survey)
  * [ __Dementia - National Framework for Action, 2015-2019](https://agedcare.health.gov.au/ageing-and-aged-care-older-people-their-families-and-carers-dementia/national-framework-for-action-on-dementia-2015-2019)
  * [ __Independent Review of the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Independent_Review_AIHW)
  * [ __Nursing Workforce Sustainability - Improving Nurse Retention and Productivity report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/nursing-workforce-sustainability-improving-nurse-retention-and-productivity)
  * [ __Review of Medicare Locals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/review-medicare-locals-final-report)
  *  **[ __Tasmanian Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tas-health-plan.htm)**
  * [ __Victorian Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/vic-health-plan.htm)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Ftas-
health-plan.htm "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
  * [Ordering publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-ordering)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **fifth** and **last** digits of 956298

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

