Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fpublications-A
"Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1) /
  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) /

# Publications - A

Publications in the Health website with titles beginning with A.

 __Page last updated: 29 May 2023 (this page is generated automatically and
reflects updates to other content within the website)

## By Title

View publications by title beginning with...

  * [A](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-A "View publications with titles beginning with A")
  * [B](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-B "View publications with titles beginning with B")
  * [C](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-C "View publications with titles beginning with C")
  * [D](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-D "View publications with titles beginning with D")
  * [E](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-E "View publications with titles beginning with E")
  * [F](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-F "View publications with titles beginning with F")
  * [G](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-G "View publications with titles beginning with G")
  * [H](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-H "View publications with titles beginning with H")
  * [I](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-I "View publications with titles beginning with I")
  * [J](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-J "View publications with titles beginning with J")
  * [K](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-K "View publications with titles beginning with K")
  * [L](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-L "View publications with titles beginning with L")
  * [M](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-M "View publications with titles beginning with M")
  * [N](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-N "View publications with titles beginning with N")
  * [O](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-O "View publications with titles beginning with O")
  * [P](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-P "View publications with titles beginning with P")
  * [Q](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Q "View publications with titles beginning with Q")
  * [R](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-R "View publications with titles beginning with R")
  * [S](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-S "View publications with titles beginning with S")
  * [T](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-T "View publications with titles beginning with T")
  * [U](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-U "View publications with titles beginning with U")
  * [V](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-V "View publications with titles beginning with V")
  * [W](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-W "View publications with titles beginning with W")
  * [X](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-X "View publications with titles beginning with X")
  * [Y](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Y "View publications with titles beginning with Y")
  * [Z](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Z "View publications with titles beginning with Z")
  * [0 - 9](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-0-9 "View publications with titles beginning with numerals")

## By Health Topic

View publications by health topic

select a topic...Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander HealthAlcoholAnnual
reportsAntibiotic resistanceArthritisAsthmaAutismBlood and Blood
productsBreastfeedingBudgetCancerCardiovascular diseasesCarersCasemixChild
healthChronic diseaseClinical TrialsCommunicable diseasesCouncilsDental
healthDiabetesDiagnostic imagingDiseases and conditionsDrugsDrugs and
substance abusee-HealthEmergency managementEnvironmental healthExerciseEye
healthFood standardsFraudGeneral practiceGP Super ClinicsGrantsHealth care
systemsHealth insuranceHealth personnelHealth promotionHealth TechnologyHealth
workforceHearingHepatitis BHepatitis CHIVHIV/AIDSHormonesHospitalsIllegal
drugsImmunisationInfant HealthInfluenzaInjury preventionLegislationMaternal
HealthMedical indemnityMedical Treatment OverseasMedicareMedicinal
cannabisMen's healthMental healthMidwivesNursingNutritionObesityOncologyOrgan
and tissue donationPalliative carePandemicPathologyPersonally controlled
electronic health recordsPharmaceutical benefitsPharmacyPhysical
activityPrescribed drugsPrimary health carePrivate Health
InsuranceProfessional indemnityPublic awarenessRadiationRegulation and Red
Tape ReductionResearch and developmentRural health servicesSexual HealthSpeech
pathologySportStatisticsSuicide preventionTobaccoWomen's healthYouth health

* * *

Alternatively [view all 628
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-all) or the
[most recently added
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) on
this website.

## Your selection has returned 72 publications:

Publication| Year| Status| Health topics  
---|---|---|---  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas:
Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF) Complaints Committee: 2019 –
2020](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-19-20-Annual-
Report-of-the-Marketing-in-Australia-of-Infant-Formula "Annual Report of the
Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers
Agreement \(MAIF\) Complaints Committee: 2019 – 2020")

2019 - 2020 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Tribunal (the Tribunal)

| 2021| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas:
Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF) Complaints Committee: 2018 –
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-18-19-Annual-
Report-of-the-Marketing-in-Australia-of-Infant-Formula "Annual Report of the
Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers
Agreement \(MAIF\) Complaints Committee: 2018 – 2019")

2018 - 2019 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Complaints Committee

| 2019| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Midwives
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-midwife-report "Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Midwives
report")

Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Midwives report presents long-term,
national workforce projections for midwives to 2030.

| 2019| Current|  
  
### [ACT Health Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/act-health-
plan.htm "ACT Health Plan")

People in Canberra and the surrounding region will have better access to
health and medical services, when and where they need them, under the
Australian Government’s new ACT Health Plan.

| 2019| Current|

  * [Cancer](publications-Cancer)
  * [Research and development](publications-Research and development)
  * [Hospitals](publications-Hospitals)
  * [Mental health](publications-Mental health)
  * [Primary health care](publications-Primary health care)
  * [Diagnostic imaging](publications-Diagnostic imaging)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal:
2017 – 2018](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-
apmaif-17-18-Annual-Report-of-the-Marketing-in-Australia-of-Infant-Formula-
Tribunal "Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Tribunal: 2017 – 2018")

2017 - 2018 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Tribunal (the Tribunal)

| 2019| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Obstetrics and
Gynaecology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-obstetrics-and-gynaecology-report "Australia’s Future Health
Workforce – Obstetrics and Gynaecology")

 _Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Obstetrics and Gynaecology report_
contains detailed modelling on workforce supply, demand and training, for the
Obstetrics and Gynaecology profession.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Ophthalmology
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-ophthalmology-report "Australia’s Future Health Workforce –
Ophthalmology report")

 _Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Ophthalmology report_ presents long-
term, national workforce projections for doctors to 2030.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal:
2016 – 2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-16-17
"Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal: 2016
– 2017")

2016 - 2017 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula

| 2018| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Australian Sentinel Practices Research Network, 1 January  to  31 March
2017, The](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-o "Australian
Sentinel Practices Research Network, <span>1 January </span> to <span> 31
March 2017</span>, The")

The Australian Sentinel Practices Research Network was established in 1991 to
provide a rapid, national, monitoring scheme for infectious diseases that can
alert public health officials of epidemics before they arise. The network
consists of general practitioners, throughout all 8 states and territories in
Australia, who report presentations on a number of defined medical conditions
each week. This report presents data from the 1st quarter of 2017 (1 January
to 31 March) and includes the syndromic surveillance of influenza-like-
illness, gastroenteritis, chicken pox, and shingles, and the virological
surveillance of respiratory viruses including influenza A, influenza B, RSV
and rhinovirus.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Annual report of the National Influenza Surveillance Scheme,
2010](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-f "Annual report of the
National Influenza Surveillance Scheme, 2010")

The 2010 influenza season was moderate overall, with more laboratory-confirmed
cases than in earlier years, with the exception of 2009. This report brings
together a range of data sources under the National Influenza Surveillance
Scheme to describe influenza during 2010.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Australian Rotavirus Surveillance Program Annual Report,
2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-k "Australian Rotavirus
Surveillance Program Annual Report, 2016")

The Australian Rotavirus Surveillance Program has characterised the G- and P-
genotypes of rotavirus strains causing severe disease in Australian children
since 1997. This report describes the genotype distribution of rotavirus
strains causing severe gastroenteritis in Australia for the period 1 January
to 31 December 2016.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Australian Meningococcal Surveillance Programme, Annual Report
2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-i "Australian
Meningococcal Surveillance Programme, Annual Report 2016")

The reference laboratories of the Australian National Neisseria Network (NNN)
report data on the number of laboratory confirmed cases of invasive
meningococcal disease (IMD) using culture and by non-culture based techniques
for the Australian Meningococcal Surveillance Programme (AMSP). In 2016, there
were 243 laboratory-confirmed cases of invasive meningococcal disease (IMD)
analysed by the (NNN).

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the National Influenza Surveillance Scheme,
2009](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-j "Annual Report of the
National Influenza Surveillance Scheme, 2009")

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [An outbreak of _Salmonella_ Muenchen after consuming sea turtle, Northern
Territory, Australia, 2017.](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-a
"An outbreak of <em>Salmonella</em> Muenchen after consuming sea turtle,
Northern Territory, Australia, 2017.")

An outbreak of _Salmonella_ Muenchen gastroenteritis occurred in a remote
coastal Aboriginal community in the Northern Territory (NT) of Australia.
There were 22 people sick (attack rate 55%); 7 had laboratory confirmed _S_.
Muenchen infection; 2 required medical evacuation and admission to the
intensive care unit (ICU). We conducted a descriptive case series to
investigate the outbreak. All cases ate meat from a single green turtle (
_Chelonia mydas_ ). The animal’s pre-death stress, improper butchering,
insufficient cooking and the unsatisfactory storage of meat all likely
contributed to the outbreak. Turtle meat should be prepared safely, cooked
thoroughly and stored appropriately to avoid _Salmonella_ infection.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Australian Meningococcal Surveillance Programme, 1 April to 30 June
2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-i "Australian
Meningococcal Surveillance Programme, 1 April to 30 June 2017")

The reference laboratories of the Australian Meningococcal Surveillance
Programme (AMSP) report data on the number of cases of invasive meningococcal
disease (IMD) confirmed by laboratory testing using culture and by non-culture
based techniques. Data contained in quar­terly reports are restricted to a
description of the number of cases of IMD by jurisdiction and serogroup, where
known. A full analysis of laboratory confirmed cases of IMD in each calen­dar
year is contained in the AMSP annual reports.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Annual report: surveillance of adverse events following immunisation in
Australia, 2015](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-l "Annual
report: surveillance of adverse events following immunisation in Australia,
2015")

This report summarises Australian passive surveillance data for adverse events
following immunisation (AEFI) reported to the Therapeutic Goods Administration
(TGA) for 2015. It also describes reporting trends over the 16-year period 1
January 2000 to 31 December 2015.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce - Emergency Medicine
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-mmergency-medicine "Australia’s Future Health Workforce - Emergency
Medicine report")

 _Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Emergency Medicine report_ presents
long-term, national workforce projections for doctors to 2030.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Dermatology
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-dermatology-report "Australia’s Future Health Workforce –
Dermatology report")

This report outlines an analysis of the dermatology workforce and the results
of updated supply and demand projections, as well as considering capacity and
distribution for vocational training into the future.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal
2015 - 2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-15-16
"Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula Tribunal 2015 -
2016")

2015 - 2016 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula

| 2017| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Australian Secondary School Students’ use of tobacco, alcohol, and over-
the-counter and illicit substances in
2014](http://www.nationaldrugstrategy.gov.au/internet/drugstrategy/Publishing.nsf/content/australian-
secondary-students-alcohol-drug-survey "Australian Secondary School Students’
use of tobacco, alcohol, and over-the-counter and illicit substances in 2014")

The Australian Secondary Students’ Alcohol and Drug survey (ASSAD) is a
triennial national survey of students’ use of licit and illicit substances.

| 2016| Current|  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Anaesthesia
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-anaesthesia-report "Australia’s Future Health Workforce –
Anaesthesia report")

This report outlines an analysis of the anaesthesia workforce and the results
of updated supply and demand projections, as well as considering capacity and
distribution for vocational training into the future.

| 2016| Current|

  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Australian Government Response to the Review of Medicines and Medical
Devices Regulation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/MMD-govresp
"Australian Government Response to the Review of Medicines and Medical Devices
Regulation")

| 2016| Current|

  * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](publications-Regulation and Red Tape Reduction)

  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Psychiatry
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Australias-future-health-
workforce%E2%80%93psychiatry "Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Psychiatry
report")

This report outlines an analysis of the psychiatry workforce and the results
of updated supply and demand projections, as well as considering capacity and
distribution for vocational training into the future.

| 2016| Current|

  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Australian Government Response to Contributing Lives, Thriving
Communities - Review of Mental Health Programmes and
Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-review-response
"Australian Government Response to Contributing Lives, Thriving Communities -
Review of Mental Health Programmes and Services")

The Australian Government response to the Review aims to transform
Commonwealth mental health funding and leadership over the next three years to
achieve a more efficient, integrated and sustainable mental health system and
to improve mental health service delivery for Australians.

| 2015| Current|  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Oral Health
reports](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-oral-health "Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Oral Health
reports")

 _Australia’s Future Health Workforce - Oral Health_ reports provides the
results of the oral health workforce planning projections.

| 2014| Current|

  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Nurses
reports](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-nurses "Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Nurses reports")

 _Australia’s Future Health Workforce- Nurses_ reports present long-term,
national workforce projections for nurses to 2030.

| 2014| Current|

  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce - Doctors
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-doctors "Australia’s Future Health Workforce - Doctors report")

 _Australia’s Future Health Workforce - Doctors_ report presents long-term,
national workforce projections for doctors to 2030.

| 2014| Current|

  * [Health workforce](publications-Health workforce)

  
  
### [Accessible mental health services for people with an intellectual
disability: a guide for providers](http://3dn.unsw.edu.au/the-guide
"Accessible mental health services for people with an intellectual disability:
a guide for providers")

This guide has been developed as a practical framework for the development of
accessible mental health services. It provides assistance to professionals and
to services to improve access to high quality mental health care for people
with an intellectual disability.

| 2014| Current|

  * [Mental health](publications-Mental health)

  
  
### [ANDIAB2 2012: Quality Assurance of Patient Practices and Diabetes Centre
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pq-diabetes-pubs-andiab12 "ANDIAB2
2012: Quality Assurance of Patient Practices and Diabetes Centre Care")

This document reports on ANDIAB2 2012, the third 'Education and Patient Self-
care' focused diabetes data collection initiative conducted by the National
Association of Diabetes Centres (NADC).

| 2014| Current|

  * [Chronic disease](publications-Chronic disease)
  * [Diabetes](publications-Diabetes)

  
  
### [A National framework for recovery-oriented mental health services: policy
and theory](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-pubs-n-recovpol "A
National framework for recovery-oriented mental health services: policy and
theory")

This background paper is a summary of the research and policy that underpins
Australia's national framework for recovery-oriented mental health services.

| 2013| Current|

  * [Mental health](publications-Mental health)

  
  
### [A National framework for recovery-oriented mental health services: guide
for practitioners and providers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-
pubs-n-recovgde "A National framework for recovery-oriented mental health
services: guide for practitioners and providers")

This document gives guidance to mental health practitioners and services on
recovery-oriented practice and service delivery.

| 2013| Current|

  * [Mental health](publications-Mental health)

  
  
### [Australian Government response to: Before it's too late: report on the
inquiry into early intervention programs aimed at reducing youth
suicide](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-pubs-a-before
"Australian Government response to: Before it's too late: report on the
inquiry into early intervention programs aimed at reducing youth suicide")

Australian Government response to the House of Representatives Standing
Committee on Health and Ageing's report on the inquiry into early intervention
programs aimed at reducing youth suicide.

| 2013| Current|

  * [Mental health](publications-Mental health)
  * [Suicide prevention](publications-Suicide prevention)

  
  
### [Australian Government Response to the Report of the Senate Select
committee on Men's
Health](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/publications/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-
pub-au-gov-res-men-health "Australian Government Response to the Report of the
Senate Select committee on Men's Health")

| 2012| Current|

  * [Men's health](publications-Men's health)

  
  
### [Australian 24-Hour Movement Guidelines for the Early Years (Birth to 5
years): An Integration of Physical Activity, Sedentary Behaviour, and
Sleep](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/npra-0-5yrs-brochure "Australian
24-Hour Movement Guidelines for the Early Years \(Birth to 5 years\): An
Integration of Physical Activity, Sedentary Behaviour, and Sleep")

A brochure containing the Guideline recommendations for the Early Years (Birth
to 5 years) and supporting information.

| 2012| Current|

  * [Child health](publications-Child health)
  * [Physical activity](publications-Physical activity)
  * [Infant Health](publications-Infant Health)

  
  
### [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Performance
Framework](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/oatsih_heath-
performanceframework "Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Performance
Framework")

The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Performance Framework
monitors progress in Indigenous Australian health outcomes, health system
performance and broader determinants of health.

| 2011| Current|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](publications-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)

  
  
### [Australian Government response to Review of cardiovascular disease
programs](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/chronic-xref-pubs-cardio-
revresp "Australian Government response to Review of cardiovascular disease
programs")

This response highlights commitment to reducing the burden of cardiovascular
disease through targeted investment and through broader health reforms.

| 2011| Current|

  * [Cardiovascular diseases](publications-Cardiovascular diseases)
  * [Chronic disease](publications-Chronic disease)

  
  
### [Australian Government response to Review of cardiovascular disease
programs](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cardio-pubs-revresp
"Australian Government response to Review of cardiovascular disease programs")

The Australian Government released its response to the Review of
cardiovascular disease programs on 15 April 2011. The response highlights
commitment to reducing the burden of cardiovascular disease through targeted
investment and through broader health reforms.

| 2011| Current|

  * [Cardiovascular diseases](publications-Cardiovascular diseases)
  * [Chronic disease](publications-Chronic disease)

  
  
### [ANDIAB2 2010: quality assurance of patient practices and diabetes centre
care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/chronic-xref-pubs-diabetes-
andiab210 "ANDIAB2 2010: quality assurance of patient practices and diabetes
centre care")

This report analyses demographic, self-care and clinical data of people
referred to specialist diabetes services over approximately one month in 2010.

| 2010| Current|

  * [Chronic disease](publications-Chronic disease)
  * [Diabetes](publications-Diabetes)

  
  
### [ANDIAB2 2010: quality assurance of patient practices and diabetes centre
care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/diabetes-pubs-andiab210 "ANDIAB2
2010: quality assurance of patient practices and diabetes centre care")

This report analyses demographic, self-care and clinical data of people
referred to specialist diabetes services over approximately one month in 2010.

| 2010| Current|

  * [Chronic disease](publications-Chronic disease)
  * [Diabetes](publications-Diabetes)

  
  
### [Australian type 2 diabetes risk assessment tool
(AUSDRISK)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/chronic-diab-prev-aus
"Australian type 2 diabetes risk assessment tool \(AUSDRISK\)")

The Australian type 2 diabetes risk assessment tool (AUSDRISK) is a short list
of questions to help both health professionals and consumers to assess the
risk of developing type 2 diabetes over the next five years.

| 2010| Current|

  * [Chronic disease](publications-Chronic disease)
  * [Diabetes](publications-Diabetes)

  
  
### [A list of environmental health
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-environment-publist2
"A list of environmental health publications")

List of Publications on environmental health currently distributed by the
Office of Health Protection of the Australian Government Department of Health
and Ageing.

| 2010| Current|

  * [Environmental health](publications-Environmental health)

  
  
### [Australian National Breastfeeding Strategy
2010-2015](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/aust-breastfeeding-
strategy-2010-2015 "Australian National Breastfeeding Strategy 2010-2015")

At their meeting on 13 November 2009, the Australian Health Ministers endorsed
the Australian National Breastfeeding Strategy 2010-2015.

| 2010| Current|

  * [Breastfeeding](publications-Breastfeeding)
  * [Infant Health](publications-Infant Health)
  * [Maternal Health](publications-Maternal Health)
  * [Women's health](publications-Women's health)

  
  
### [Alcohol resources - National Binge Drinking Strategy (Drinking
Nightmare)](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/drinkingnightmare/publishing.nsf/Content/resources
"Alcohol resources - National Binge Drinking Strategy \(Drinking Nightmare\)")

Resources from the National Binge Drinking Strategy (Drinking Nightmare)
database

| 2009| Current|

  * [Drugs and substance abuse](publications-Drugs and substance abuse)
  * [Alcohol](publications-Alcohol)
  * [Youth health](publications-Youth health)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia of
Infant Formula 2007 - 2008](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-
apmaif_07 "Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia
of Infant Formula 2007 - 2008")

The Panel monitors compliance with the _Marketing in Australia of Infant
Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement_ (MAIF Agreement). The aim of
the MAIF Agreement is to contribute to the provision of safe and adequate
nutrition for infants, by the protection and promotion of breastfeeding and by
ensuring the proper use of breast milk substitutes when they are necessary.

| 2009| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Child health](publications-Child health)
  * [Nutrition](publications-Nutrition)

  
  
### [Analysis of 2005/2006 data: initial consumer reactions to the graphic
health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-tobacco-analysis-
cons-reaction-graphic-health-warnings "Analysis of 2005/2006 data: initial
consumer reactions to the graphic health warnings")

An analysis of departmental survey data of initial community reactions to the
graphic health warnings.

| 2009| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)

  
  
### [Analysis of 2005/2006 data: initial consumer reactions to the graphic
health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-tobacco-analysis-
cons-reaction-graphic-health-warnings "Analysis of 2005/2006 data: initial
consumer reactions to the graphic health warnings")

This is part of the 2008 evaluation of the graphic health warnings on tobacco
products. It analyses departmental survey data of initial community reactions
to the graphic health warnings.

| 2009| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)

  
  
### [An evaluation of the public access defibrillation (PAD)
demonstration](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/chronic-cardio-pubs-padev
"An evaluation of the public access defibrillation \(PAD\) demonstration")

This report evaluates the effectiveness of the Public Access Defibrillation
Demonstration project, identifies issues that arose during the trial, and
considers lessons which may be relevant to future considerations of public
access defibrillation.

| 2008| Current|

  * [Cardiovascular diseases](publications-Cardiovascular diseases)
  * [Chronic disease](publications-Chronic disease)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia of
Infant Formula 2004 - 2007](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-
apmaif_04 "Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia
of Infant Formula 2004 - 2007")

The Panel monitors compliance with the Marketing in Australia of Infant
Formula: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF Agreement). The aim of
the MAIF Agreement is to help ensure safe and adequate nutrition for infants,
by the protection and promotion of breastfeeding.

| 2008| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Child health](publications-Child health)
  * [Nutrition](publications-Nutrition)

  
  
### [An Evaluation of the public access defibrillation (PAD)
demonstration](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/chronic-cardio-pubs-padev
"An Evaluation of the public access defibrillation \(PAD\) demonstration")

This report evaluates the effectiveness of the Public Access Defibrillation
Demonstration project, identifies issues that arose during the trial, and
considers lessons which may be relevant to future considerations of public
access defibrillation.

| 2008| Current|

  * [Cardiovascular diseases](publications-Cardiovascular diseases)
  * [Chronic disease](publications-Chronic disease)

  
  
### [A Review of enablers and barriers of Indigenous drug users accessing
needle and syringe programs – a report for the COAG Multilateral Group on
Needle and Syringe Programs](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/needle-
indig "A Review of enablers and barriers of Indigenous drug users accessing
needle and syringe programs – a report for the COAG Multilateral Group on
Needle and Syringe Programs")

This study examined factors that either deter or support access to Needle and
Syringe Program (NSP) services among Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
injecting drug users (IDUs).

| 2008| Current|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](publications-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)
  * [Drugs and substance abuse](publications-Drugs and substance abuse)

  
  
### [Australian National Guidelines for the Management of Healthcare Workers
Living with Blood Borne Viruses and Healthcare Workers who Perform Exposure
Prone Procedures at Risk of Exposure to Blood Borne
Viruses](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cdna-bloodborne.htm
"Australian National Guidelines for the Management of Healthcare Workers
Living with Blood Borne Viruses and Healthcare Workers who Perform Exposure
Prone Procedures at Risk of Exposure to Blood Borne Viruses")

These national Guidelines endorsed by the Australian Health Ministers’
Advisory Council in June 2018 supersede the 2012 version of these Guidelines.

| 2007| Current|  
  
### [Alerting the community to the link between illicit drugs and mental
illness: developmental research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-
pub-illicit-mental-health "Alerting the community to the link between illicit
drugs and mental illness: developmental research")

This report explores awareness, attitudes, perceptions and experience of
issues relating to illicit drug use and mental illness amongst youth, young
adults, their parents and the broader community.

| 2007| Historical|

  * [Drugs and substance abuse](publications-Drugs and substance abuse)
  * [Illegal drugs](publications-Illegal drugs)
  * [Mental health](publications-Mental health)

  
  
### [Anorexia nervosa: Australian treatment guide for consumers and carers,
2005](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-pubs-a-anorex "Anorexia
nervosa: Australian treatment guide for consumers and carers, 2005")

This treatment clinical practice guideline is for adolescents and adults who
have anorexia nervosa or who believe they are at risk of developing it. The
guide contains research on anorexia nervosa and recommendations from recovered
consumers to assist you to choose the best kind of treatment.

| 2005| Historical|

  * [Nutrition](publications-Nutrition)
  * [Mental health](publications-Mental health)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia of
Infant Formula 2003 - 2004](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
pubhlth-publicat-document-brfeed-apmaif_03.htm "Annual Report of the Advisory
Panel on the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula 2003 - 2004")

The Panel monitors compliance with the Marketing in Australia of Infant
Formula: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF Agreement). The aim of
the MAIF Agreement is to help ensure safe and adequate nutrition for infants,
by the protection and promotion of breastfeeding.

| 2005| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Child health](publications-Child health)
  * [Nutrition](publications-Nutrition)

  
  
### [An analysis of research on preventing falls and falls injury in older
people: Community, residential care and hospital settings (2004
update)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-falls_community-cnt.htm "An analysis of research on preventing falls
and falls injury in older people: Community, residential care and hospital
settings \(2004 update\)")

This report is an update of a literature review completed in 2000. The report
describes published research and studies on falls prevention for older people.

| 2004| Historical|

  * [Injury prevention](publications-Injury prevention)

  
  
### [About _Communicable Diseases
Intelligence_](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-cdi-cdiintro.htm
"About <em>Communicable Diseases Intelligence</em>")

This page contains introductory information about the journal _Communicable
Diseases Intelligence_

|  2004| Current|  
  
### [Australia's National Tobacco Campaign: evaluation report volume three:
every cigarette is doing you
damage](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-tobccamp_3-cnt "Australia's National Tobacco Campaign: evaluation
report volume three: every cigarette is doing you damage")

This volume is the third and final report in a series reporting on the
National Tobacco Campaign. It focuses on research conducted from November 1998
to November 2000.

| 2004| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)

  
  
### [Australia’s national tobacco campaign: evaluation report volume three:
every cigarette is doing you
damage](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-tobccamp_3-cnt "Australia’s national tobacco campaign: evaluation
report volume three: every cigarette is doing you damage")

The third and final report in a series reporting on the National Tobacco
Campaign. It focuses on research conducted from November 1998 to November
2000.

| 2004| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)

  
  
### [An evaluation of the Tri-State HIV/STI Project
2001-2002](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tristateev "An evaluation of
the Tri-State HIV/STI Project 2001-2002")

This page has a PDF document and contact details in relation to the Tri-state
HIV/STI project (TSP).

| 2004| Historical|

  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Accreditation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pathology-
accred-index.htm "Accreditation")

| 2004| Current|  
  
### [Alcohol and other drugs: a handbook for health
professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-aodgp "Alcohol and
other drugs: a handbook for health professionals")

This resource provides an overview of key health and medical issues arising
from the use of alcohol and other drugs.

| 2004| Historical|

  * [Alcohol](publications-Alcohol)
  * [Drugs](publications-Drugs)
  * [Illegal drugs](publications-Illegal drugs)

  
  
### [A Brief cognitive behavioural intervention for regular amphetamine users:
a treatment guide](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-
publicat-document-cognitive_intervention-cnt.htm "A Brief cognitive
behavioural intervention for regular amphetamine users: a treatment guide")

An evaluation of the effectiveness of a four-session cognitive behavioural
intervention among a sample of regular amphetamine users.

| 2003| Current|

  * [Drugs and substance abuse](publications-Drugs and substance abuse)

  
  
### [Australian Government Response to the 2002 Reviews of the National
HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C Strategies,
The](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-document-
metadata-hivhepc_response.htm "Australian Government Response to the 2002
Reviews of the National HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C Strategies, The")

The 2002 Reviews of the National HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C Strategies evaluated
two of the key public health strategies in Australia. The Australian
Government Response to the 2002 Reviews of the National HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis
C Strategies addresses the recommendations of the Reviews and outlines
Government policy in relation to HIV/AIDS, hepatitis C and related issues.

| 2003| Historical|

  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Hepatitis C](publications-Hepatitis C)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the Marketing in Australia of
Infant Formula](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-brfeed-apmaif_01.htm "Annual Report of the Advisory Panel on the
Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula")

The Panel monitors compliance with the Marketing in Australia of Infant
Formula: Manufacturers and Importers Agreement 1992 (MAIF Agreement). The aim
of the MAIF Agreement is to help ensure safe and adequate nutrition for
infants, by the protection and promotion of breastfeeding.

| 2002| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)
  * [Child health](publications-Child health)

  
  
### [A National approach for reducing access to tobacco in Australia by young
people under 18 years of age](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tobacco-
res-access "A National approach for reducing access to tobacco in Australia by
young people under 18 years of age")

A national best practice model to reduce young people's access to tobacco.

| 2000| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)

  
  
### [Australia’s national tobacco campaign: evaluation report volume two:
every cigarette is doing you
damage](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-tobccamp_2-cnt.htm "Australia’s national tobacco campaign: evaluation
report volume two: every cigarette is doing you damage")

The second report to assist in the evaluation of the National Tobacco
Campaign.

| 2000| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)

  
  
### [A National approach for reducing access to tobacco in Australia by young
people under 18 years of age](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tobacco-
res-access "A National approach for reducing access to tobacco in Australia by
young people under 18 years of age")

This report provides a national best practice model to reduce young people's
access to tobacco.

| 2000| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)
  * [Youth health](publications-Youth health)

  
  
### [Australia's National Tobacco Campaign: evaluation report volume two:
every cigarette is doing you
damage](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-tobccamp_2-cnt.htm "Australia's National Tobacco Campaign: evaluation
report volume two: every cigarette is doing you damage")

This is the second report to assist in the evaluation of the National Tobacco
Campaign.

| 2000| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)

  
  
### [Ageing Australian Population and Future Health Costs: 1996-2051.
Occasional Papers: New Series Number 7,
The](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-historicpubs-hfsocc-
ocpanew7.htm "Ageing Australian Population and Future Health Costs: 1996-2051.
Occasional Papers: New Series Number 7, The")

This study projects future health costs attributable to the progressive ageing
of the Australian population based on extensive administrative data on medical
practitioner visits (to GPs and specialists), prescription drug consumption
and hospital admissions. Scenarios based on these cost data were applied to
projections of the Australian population by age and sex out to 2051 — by which
time the transient effects of the 'baby-boom' cohort will have worked their
way through the system.

| 1999| Historical|

  * [Health care systems](publications-Health care systems)

  
  
### [Australia’s national tobacco campaign: evaluation report volume one:
every cigarette is doing you
damage](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-metadata-tobccamp.htm "Australia’s national tobacco campaign:
evaluation report volume one: every cigarette is doing you damage")

This evaluation of the first phase of the National Tobacco Campaign reports on
campaign reach and recognition, smoking prevalence, beliefs, attitudes and
behaviour.

| 1999| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)

  
  
### [Australia's National Tobacco Campaign: evaluation report volume one:
every cigarette is doing you
damage](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-metadata-tobccamp.htm "Australia's National Tobacco Campaign:
evaluation report volume one: every cigarette is doing you damage")

This report is based on surveys evaluating the first phase of the National
Tobacco Campaign. The surveys measured campaign reach and recognition, smoking
prevalence, beliefs, attitudes and behaviour.

| 1999| Current|

  * [Tobacco](publications-Tobacco)

  
  
### [Audit of current training in breastfeeding support and infant
nutrition](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-oatsih-pubs-
breastfeed.htm1 "Audit of current training in breastfeeding support and infant
nutrition")

This report provides information on an audit of current training for
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health workers and other health
professionals providing health care to Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander
women.

| 1997| Historical|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](publications-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)
  * [Nutrition](publications-Nutrition)
  * [Women's health](publications-Women's health)

  
  
  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **third** and **last** digits of 935903

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

