Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions) /

# Terms of Use for PBS Approved Suppliers Portal

This page contains the Terms of Use for the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal

 __Page last updated: 02 August 2022

_TERMS OF USE_

Welcome to the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal ([ **
_PBSApprovedSuppliers.health.gov.au_**](https://PBSApprovedSuppliers.health.gov.au)
) As a condition of Your use of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal, You must
agree to these Terms of Use.

In these Terms of Use:

  
a. the terms ‘You’ and ‘Your’ refer to the user of the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal, and where applicable, also includes a reference to an Applicant where
they are represented by a Representative User.

b. ‘ACPA User’ means a member of the Australian Community Pharmacy Authority
appointed under section 99N of the National Health Act.

c. ‘Applicant’ means an individual or body who is able to make an Application
under sections 90, 91, 91A, 92 or 94 of the National Health Act.

d. ‘Applicant User’ means a User who is an Applicant that has successfully
registered a User Profile in the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal.

e. ‘Application’ means any application under sections 90, 91, 91A, 92 or 94 of
the National Health Act.

f. ‘Intellectual Property Rights’ include:  
– all copyright (including rights in relation to phonograms and broadcasts);

– all rights in relation to inventions, plant varieties, trademarks (including
service marks), designs and circuit layouts; and

– all other rights resulting from intellectual activity in the industrial,
scientific, literary or artistic fields.

but do not include:

– moral rights under Part IX of the _Copyright Act 1968_ (Cth); or

– rights in relation to confidential information.

  
g. ‘Material’ means any thing:  
– lodged by a User into the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal; or

– communicated by the Department via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal, and

includes any such thing in which Intellectual Property Rights arise.

  
h. ‘National Health Act’ means the _National Health Act 1953_ (Cth).

i. ‘PBS Approved Suppliers Portal’ means the electronic platform run by the
Department on which Applicants may lodge and manage Applications.

j. ‘Profile’ means Your online registered account to use the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal.

k. ‘Representative User’ means an individual who is authorised by the
Applicant(s) to represent them in lodging and managing certain Applications or
by a Surrounding Pharmacy User to represent them in making comments in
relation to certain Applications.

l. ‘Surrounding Pharmacy User’ means an individual or body invited by the
Department to provide comment on an Application.

m. ‘User’ means You or any other individual who uses the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal, and where the context permits includes an ACPA User,
Applicant User, Representative User or Surrounding Pharmacy User.

  
The Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Department of Health and
Aged Care (the ‘ **Department** ’) may at its discretion update these Terms of
Use. By continuing to use the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal, You accept the
Terms of Use as they apply from time to time and acknowledge that You have an
ongoing need to access the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal.

Failure to comply with these Terms of Use may, at any time, result in Your
Profile or access to the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal being suspended or
terminated.

If You no longer have an ongoing need to access the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal and You are an Applicant User, Representative User or ACPA User, You
must notify the Department as soon as possible.

_YOUR OBLIGATIONS_

Your obligations are different depending upon the type of User you are, and
these Terms of Use differentiate between the types of Users of the PBS
Approved Suppliers Portal where required. You may be more than one type of
User.

_Authorised use of myGovID_

If You register a User Profile for the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal, You
must:

  
a. only access the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal using a valid myGovID (refer
[myGovID](https://www.ato.gov.au/General/Online-services/Accessing-online-
services-with-myGovID-and-RAM/)); and

b. comply with any terms and conditions applicable to Your use of the myGovID.

  
_Confirmation of identity_

If You register a User Profile for the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal, You
confirm that Your individual identification details submitted on the PBS
Approved Suppliers Portal registration page are true and correct and that You
are not misrepresenting Your identity or registering on behalf of any other
individual.

If You use the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal as a Surrounding Pharmacy User or
a Representative User representing a Surrounding Pharmacy User, You confirm
that Your individual identification details submitted with any information and
Material You lodge via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal are true and correct
and that You are not misrepresenting Your identity.

_Representative User_

If You are a Representative User, You:

  
a. agree to submit to the Department on its request evidence of Your authority
to represent an Applicant(s) or Surrounding Pharmacy User(s);

b. must only use the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal within the scope of the
authority given by Applicant(s) or Surrounding Pharmacy User(s) to represent
them; and

c. must cease using the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal in relation to any
Applicant(s) or Surrounding Pharmacy User(s) if the authority given by them
for You to represent them is revoked.

  
_ACPA User_

If You are an ACPA User, You:

  
a. must only use the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal in the manner directed by
the Department unless such direction is inconsistent with the National Health
Act or other relevant legal obligations applicable to the ACPA User;

b. must only access information and Material from the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal that has been directly referred or provided to You by the Department;

c. acknowledge that Your use of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal is subject
to the _Deed of Undertaking in Relation to Confidential Information and
Conflict of Interest_ you have signed as a member of the Australian Community
Pharmacy Authority and that You must treat all information and Material
referred or provided to You by the Department from the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal as ‘Confidential Information’ under that deed; and

d. acknowledge that Your access to, and use of, the information and Materials
referred or provided to You by the Department from the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal or otherwise accessed by You via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal is
subject to applicable Commonwealth legislation (including the _Criminal Code
Act 1995_ (Cth), the _Privacy Act 1988_ (Cth), and the National Health Act),
and that penalties may apply for misuse of information obtained from the PBS
Approved Suppliers Portal.

  
_Applications (Applicant Users or Representative Users)_

If You are an Applicant User or Representative User representing an Applicant,
on each occasion that you _save_ a draft Application, You:

  
a. warrant that You have complied with these Terms of Use;

b. warrant that you have read and understood the relevant guidelines provided
in the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal relating to the type of Application; and

c. understand that the Department will not be able to accept the draft
Application if the file size exceeds 50MB per file upload.

  
If You are an Applicant User or Representative User representing an Applicant,
in lodging an Application, You:

  
a. warrant that You have complied with these Terms of Use;

b. warrant that you have read and understood the relevant guidelines provided
in PBS Approved Suppliers Portal relating to the type of Application;

c. warrant that to the best of your knowledge, the information contained in
the Application is true and accurate;

d. understand that the Department will not be able to accept the Application
if the file size exceeds 50MB per file upload;

e. undertake to advise the Department of any changes to information contained
in the Application;

f. accept and agree that You are responsible for any Application lodged by You
on the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal using Your Profile;

g. acknowledge and agree that where the Application is linked to Your Profile,
information in any Applications You have previously lodged that is linked to
Your Profile may be used or disclosed for the purpose of assessing the
Application;

h. acknowledge and agree that the Application may be linked to another User
Profile that is associated with the Application on Your or, in the case of a
Representative User, the Applicant’s request;

i. acknowledge and agree that the contents of the Application may be disclosed
to other parties associated with the Application; and

j. agree to pay the Application fee, if any, as specified below.

  
_Application fees_  

1\. If You lodge an Application, You must pay the relevant Application fee, if
any, in order for the Application to be assessed by the Department.  
2\. The fees applicable to Applications are available at [PBS Approved
Suppliers Application Fees](pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-
application-fees%20).  
3\. Payment of any Application fee is subject to a 7 calendar day cooling off
period from the date of issuance of an invoice by the Department.  

  
_Lawful and appropriate use of PBS Approved Suppliers Portal_

You must:

  
a. only use the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal for Your own lawful purposes, in
accordance with these Terms of Use or any other conditions notified by the
Department on the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal, and in a manner that does not
infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of, or restrict or inhibit the use
of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal by, any third party;

b. only access and use the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal from within
Australia;

c. not attempt to undermine the security or integrity of the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal;

d. not attempt to gain unauthorised access to any Materials other than those
lodged by You, or to which You have been given express permission by the
Department;

e. immediately notify the Department of any unauthorised use of Your Profile,
if You have one, or any other breach of security and take all other actions
that the Department reasonably deems necessary to maintain or enhance the
security of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal;

f. maintain Your Profile details and ensure Your Profile details are true,
accurate, current and correct, if You have one;

g. not use, or misuse the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal in any way which may
disrupt or impair the functionality of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal or
other systems used for the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal; and

h. not transmit, or input via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal, any:  
– harmful code or malware;

– unlawful, defamatory, obscene, offensive or scandalous Material, or any
Material that constitutes or encourages conduct that would contravene any law
or which may harass or cause distress or inconvenience to any person; or

– Material in violation of any Intellectual Property Rights or any laws, or
Material that You do not have the right to use or transmit or input into the
PBS Approved Suppliers Portal.

Any Material (including attachments) submitted to the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal that does not comply with these conditions will be destroyed and its
contents will not be considered or assessed for the purposes of the National
Health Act. It is Your responsibility to ensure that any files uploaded comply
with these conditions.

You acknowledge that Your access to, and use of, the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal is subject to applicable Commonwealth legislation (including the
_Criminal Code Act 1995_ (Cth), the _Privacy Act 1988_ (Cth), and the National
Health Act), and that penalties may apply for misuse of information obtained
from the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal.

Your use of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal will be logged for the purpose
of security and usage monitoring.

_Intellectual Property Rights_

Materials on the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal may be protected by
Intellectual Property Rights. You must not use any Material on the PBS
Approved Suppliers Portal for a purpose for which You do not have express
permission from the Intellectual Property Rights owner. If You have any doubt
as to Your right to use the Material, please contact its owner. The Department
is not liable if You breach an owner’s Intellectual Property Rights.

If You are an Applicant User or Representative User representing an Applicant,
You grant (or will procure) a royalty-free, non-exclusive licence for the
Department and the Australian Community Pharmacy Authority to use, reproduce
and adapt the information and Material included in any Applications You lodge
in the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal for the purpose of making an assessment
of those Applications.

If You are a Surrounding Pharmacy User or Representative User representing a
Surrounding Pharmacy User, You grant (or will procure) a royalty-free, non-
exclusive licence for the Department and the Australian Community Pharmacy
Authority to use, reproduce and adapt the information and Material You lodge
via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal for the purpose of making an assessment
of any Applications to which that information and Material relates.

You acknowledge and agree that the licences granted above, as relevant to You,
do not limit or exclude any rights that the Department or the Australian
Community Pharmacy Authority is entitled to exercise at law in relation to the
Material.

_Indemnification, liability and termination_

You remain solely responsible for complying with all applicable laws in
connection to Your use of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal. It is Your
responsibility to check that storage of, transfer and access to the Materials
You transmit or input via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal will comply with
all laws applicable to You.

You indemnify the Department for any loss or expense incurred by the
Department in dealing with any claim against it, including legal costs and
expenses on a solicitor/own client basis and the cost of time spent, resources
used or disbursements paid by the Department, arising from either:

  
a. a breach by You of these Terms of Use; or

b. an act or omission involving fault on Your part in connection with these
Terms of Use.

  
Your liability to indemnify the Department under these Terms of Use will be
reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent or other tortious act
or omission of the Department contributed to the relevant loss or damage.

If You:

  
a. breach any of these Terms of Use or conditions posted by the Department on
the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal; or

b. engage in misleading, deceptive, fraudulent, immoral or illegal conduct,

  
the Department may, without limiting its rights, terminate Your Profile or
access to the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal or suspend for any period of time
Your Profile or use of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal. The Department
reserves the right to pursue legal action.

_Collection of Your personal information and privacy obligations_

The Department may collect, use and disclose personal information about You or
about third parties that You input or transmit via the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal for the purpose of assessing Applications and administering the PBS
Approved Suppliers Portal.

The Department will handle the personal information in accordance with the
_Privacy Act 1988_ (Cth).

If You disclose other people’s personal information to the Department via the
PBS Approved Suppliers Portal, You warrant to the Department that:

  
a. the people to whom the personal information relates have consented to the
Department collecting, using and disclosing their personal information as
described in the Department’s collection notice located on the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal homepage under the heading ‘Privacy Statement’ and You must
provide evidence of that consent to the Department upon request; and

b. You have drawn to those people’s attention to that Departmental privacy
notice.

  
The [long form collection notice](form-privacy-note) relates to the
Department’s collection of personal information using the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal.

You acknowledge that You have read the long form collection notice.

For further details about how the Department handles personal information, see
the [Department's privacy policy](privacy-policy).

_

### DISCLAIMERS

_

You agree that Your use of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal is entirely at
Your own risk, and You have made Your own assessment on the risk of use of the
PBS Approved Suppliers Portal and any Materials on the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal.

If You are an Applicant User or Representative User representing an Applicant,
You accept and agree that You are authorised and responsible for any
Applications made to the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal using Your Profile. The
Department is not liable or legally responsible for any of the Applications
You make using Your Profile.

If You are a Surrounding Pharmacy User or Representative User representing a
Surrounding Pharmacy User, You accept and agree that You are authorised and
responsible for any information and Material You lodge via the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal. The Department is not liable or legally responsible for any
of the any information and Material You lodge via the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal.

The Department may at any time change the content, including removing any
Materials held in the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal at its discretion and
without notice.

You agree that Material You transmit or input via the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal may be accessed by ACPA Users who are permitted access to the Material
by the Department for the purposes of processing Applications, or operating
and administering the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal. You are responsible for
all risks relating to access by ACPA Users to Material You transmit or input
via the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal before using the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal.

The Materials on the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal may include the views or
recommendations of third parties and do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Australian Government or indicate a commitment to a particular course of
action.

The Department strives to protect the Materials available through the PBS
Approved Suppliers Portal. However, the Department gives no warranty in
connection with the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal and its Materials and cannot
guarantee that the use of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal and its Materials
will not breach Intellectual Property Rights, will be uninterrupted or error
free, that any defects in the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal and its Materials
will be corrected, or that the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal is free of
harmful code.

To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Department excludes all liability
and responsibility to You (or any other person) for any loss (including loss
of information, data, profits and savings) or damage resulting, directly or
indirectly, in connection from Your (or any other person’s) use of or reliance
on, the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal or its Materials.

Where connection to a system or website outside the Department’s control
compromises the objectives of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal, the
Department may sever links to that website or system.

_General_

These Terms of Use are governed by the laws of the Australian Capital
Territory, Australia, and You agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of
the courts of the Australian Capital Territory.

If any of these Terms of Use are held to be invalid, unenforceable or illegal
for any reason, the remaining Terms of Use will continue in full force.

If either party waives any breach of these Terms of Use, this will not
constitute a waiver of any other breach. No waiver will be effective unless
made in writing.

### In this section

  * [ __New or relocating pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa)
  * [ __Application Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-application-fees)
  * [ __Deactivation of an approved pharmacist - guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/deactivation-of-an-approvedppharmacist-guidelines)
  * [ __Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
  * [ __Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms)
  * [ __Minister’s discretionary power to approve a pharmacist](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ministerial-discretion)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers - Archived news updates](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-updates)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
  * [ __Privacy and your personal information](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/form-privacy-note)
  *  **[ __Terms of Use for PBS Approved Suppliers Portal](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-terms-of-use-for-pharmacy-approvals-portal)**
  * [ __Contact us](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-contact-us)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fpharmaceutical-
benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-terms-of-use-for-pharmacy-approvals-portal
"Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
  * [Pharmacists](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmacists)
  * [Hospital Authorities](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hospital-authorities)
  * [Medical Practitioners](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-practitioners)
  * [Application Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-application-fees)
  * [Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
  * [Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms)
  * [Minister’s discretionary power to approve a pharmacist](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ministerial-discretion)
  * [New or relocating pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa)
  * [Archived news updates](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-updates)
  * [Contact us](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-contact-us)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **third** and **fourth** digits of 893712

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

