Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro) /
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care) /

# Autism — Helping Children with Autism program

Medicare items supporting early diagnosis and treatment.

 __Page last updated: 03 April 2014

[Printable version of Autism Fact Sheet (PDF 369
KB)](025DB7067A4FAA8BCA257BF0001F50AB/$File/Autism_Fact%20Sheet_20-02-14.pdf)  
The _Helping Children with Autism_ program commenced on 1 July 2008, and
created items in the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) for the early diagnosis
and treatment of children with autism or any other pervasive developmental
disorder (PDD).  

### Eligibility

The Medicare items available through the _Helping Children with Autism_
program are early intervention services for children undergoing
diagnosis/assessment or treatment for autism or any other PDD.  
Children can access the autism Medicare services providing they have **not**
already accessed services under the Better Start for Children with a
Disability initiative and providing they meet the requirements of each
service.  

### Medicare items for consultant paediatricians or psychiatrists

Medicare items are available for **assessment, diagnosis and the creation of a
treatment and management** plan by a consultant paediatrician (MBS item 135)
or a psychiatrist (MBS item 289) for a child aged under 13 years.  
  
A consultant paediatrician or psychiatrist can refer a child to an eligible
allied health provider to assist with diagnosis of the child or for the
purpose of contributing to the child’s treatment plan. Referrals for these
**allied health assessment** services can be made by a consultant
paediatrician as an outcome of the service provided under one of the MBS items
110-131, or as an outcome of a service provided by a psychiatrist under one of
the MBS items 296-370.  
  
When a treatment and management plan is in place, the medical practitioner who
develops the plan can refer a child for **allied health treatment** services,
providing the child is aged under 15 years and had a treatment and management
plan prepared for them before their 13th birthday.  
  
Only one autism treatment and management plan can be prepared for a child in
their lifetime. However, if a child sees a different medical practitioner to
the one who prepared the treatment and management plan, the consultant
paediatrician or psychiatrist who is seen subsequently can refer the child for
any remaining allied health treatment services that are available to the
child.  
  
Children with an existing treatment and management plan created under MBS
items 135 or 289 can be **reviewed** under attendance items for a consultant
paediatrician or psychiatrist..  
  
Referring medical practitioners are not required to use a specific form to
refer patients for the allied health services that are available through the
Autism — Helping Children with Autism program. The **referral** may be a
letter or note to an eligible allied health professional, signed and dated by
the referring practitioner.  

### Medicare items for allied health providers

Under the _Helping Children with Autism_ program, a child can be referred by a
consultant paediatrician or psychiatrist for the following allied health
services:

  * up to **four diagnostic / assessment services** from psychologists, speech pathologists, occupational therapists, audiologists, optometrists, orthoptists or physiotherapists to assist the referring practitioner with diagnosis or to contribute to a child’s treatment and management plan (for a child under 13 years of age). 
  * up to **twenty treatment services** from psychologists, speech pathologists, occupational therapists, audiologists, optometrists, orthoptists or physiotherapists (for a child under 15 years of age, providing a treatment and management plan is in place before their 13th birthday).

These are the total number of services available to each child through the
_Helping Children with Autism_ program – not an annual entitlement.  

#### Assistance with diagnosis/contribution to a treatment plan*

 ** _MBS items for allied health assessment and treatment of autism/PDD_**

  * 82000 Psychologist 
  * 82005 Speech pathologist 
  * 82010 Occupational therapist 
  * 82030 Audiologist, optometrist, orthoptist, physiotherapist

* Prerequisite MBS items: 110-131 (paediatrician) or 296-370 (psychiatrist).  

#### Treatment services**

 ** _MBS items for allied health treatment of children with autism/PDD_**

  * 82015 Psychologist 
  * 82020 Speech pathologist 
  * 82025 Occupational therapist 
  * 82035 Audiologist, optometrist, orthoptist, physiotherapist

** Prerequisite MBS items: 135 (paediatrician) or 289 (psychiatrist).  
  
A **course of treatment** for the allied health treatment services consists of
the number of allied health services stated on the child’s referral, up to a
maximum of 10 services. This enables the referring practitioner to consider a
report from the allied health provider(s) about the services provided to the
child, and the need for further treatment.  
  
Patients will require a separate **referral** for each allied health provider
they are referred to and they will also need new referrals for each new course
of treatment.  

### More Information

The explanatory notes and item descriptors for these items are in the
[Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) available
online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/).  
  
For inquiries about eligibility, claiming, fees and rebates, call the
Department of Human Services (Medicare): patient inquiries 132 011; provider
inquiries 132 150  
  
For information on early intervention funding for children with Autism
Spectrum Disorder (ASD) see the[ Department of Social Services
website](http://www.dss.gov.au/our-responsibilities/disability-and-
carers/program-services/for-people-with-disability/helping-children-with-
autism).

### In this section

  *  **[ __Autism — Helping Children with Autism program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/autism-children)**
  * [ __Disability — Better Start for Children with Disability initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/children_disability)
  * [ __Pregnancy support counselling](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pcd-pregnancy-support.htm)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fautism-
children "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
  * [Claiming from Medicare](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/dhs/medicare)
  * [Diagnostic imaging under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/diagnosticimaging-aboutus.htm)
  * [e-Health records Medicare data](http://www.ehealth.gov.au/internet/ehealth/publishing.nsf/content/home)
  * [Medicare safety net arrangements 1973 to 2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/EMSN_Landing_Page)
  * [Legislation](http://www.legislation.gov.au/)
  * [MBS Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Services Advisory Committee](http://www.msac.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strategicpolicyMTO.htm)
  * [Pathology under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pathology-aboutus-index.htm)
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_ATSI_mbsha_resource_kit)
  * [Radiation therapy under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-roi-aboutus.htm)
  * [Statistics under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicare+Statistics-1)
  * [Specialist video consultations under Medicare](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsonline-telehealth-landing.htm)
  * [Your Questions Answered](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medicare-your-questions-answered)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **third** and **last** digits of 135149

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

