Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions) /

# Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers - Archived news
updates

 __Page last updated: 30 March 2023

### October 2021  
Changes to form submission processes for the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal

The PBS Approvals team have recently identified a security risk that could
result in fraudulent activity if current processes are not reviewed and
changed. The risk has been identified at the point where pharmacies or their
agents can submit a form relating to changing details for that pharmacy
without having to log into the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal.

From 27 September 2021, the PBS Approved Suppliers Section will no longer
accept the following forms via the upload documents function of the PBS
Approved Suppliers Portal if the user does not sign in:

  * Notification of bank account details for an approved pharmacy
  * Authority to permit person(s) to enquire and/or sign claim forms on behalf of an approved pharmacist
  * Notification of bank details for a Hospital Authority
  * Authority to authorise pharmacist(s) to sign claim forms on behalf of a hospital authority
  * Notification of bank details for an approved medical practitioner

If the above forms are received from a user who is not signed in, they will be
deactivated and will not progress. The user will receive an email from the PBS
Approvals team to inform them that the submitted form is not progressing. They
will need to be resubmitted by the user after signing in to the PBS Approved
Suppliers portal in order to progress the change.

Information on how to register and sign in to the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal can be found on the Guides and Forms page. For all information on
obtaining a myGovID, which is required for registration, including required
identity documents, setting it up and what you can use it for please visit:
[mygovid.gov.au](mailto:mygovid.gov.au)

This change will ensure verification of the identity of the person requesting
these changes and that the validity of the requested changes is also subjected
to more robust verification against the existing pharmacy details.

The option to submit these forms without the need to log in to the portal
using myGovID was previously provided in response to feedback from pharmacies,
who may not have had this option set up for use. However due to the risks
identified, it has been decided that this option will no longer be available
for certain forms.

This process change was necessary to ensure that appropriate checks are being
performed against information received regarding approved pharmacies.

We recognise that this is extra work for some approved suppliers to set up a
myGovID and apologise for any inconvenience caused. For further information,
please email
[PBSApprovedSuppliers@health.gov.au](mailto:PBSApprovedSuppliers@health.gov.au)

#### PBS Approved Suppliers – End of year closure period 2021

The Department of Health and Aged Care is closed from 3pm on Friday 24
December 2021 to Monday 3 January 2022 inclusive. To assist the team to manage
applications in the lead up to the Christmas closure period, the following
timings will apply.

##### Change of ownership applications and changes of other busines details

If you are planning to change ownership or other business details of an
approved pharmacy between mid December and mid January, please ensure that
your application or request (whichever applies) is submitted by **26 November
2021** , noting that applications and requests will continue to be assessed
within published timeframes.

Applicants previously issued with an Administration Number wishing to request
an Approval Number may do so until close of business **17 December 2021**.

##### Applications requiring consideration by the Australian Community
Pharmacy Authority

Applications requiring consideration by the Australian Community Pharmacy
Authority (Authority) should continue to be submitted in line with the
submission dates at
[www.health.gov.au/acpa](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/www.health.gov.au/acpa),
noting that the Authority’s last meeting for the year is scheduled for **10
December 2021**. The cut-off date for lodging an application for this meeting
is **18 November 2021**. Applications that are recommended for approval at
that meeting will not be issued with an administration number, nor will
approval be granted, before the Christmas closure.

Applicants should note that there is no meeting of the Authority scheduled for
January 2022 to account for the Department’s closure period and availability
of staff and Authority members in January.

The PBS Approved Suppliers Portal will be available for submission of
applications and notifications during the closure period; however, no
applications will be assessed, and no PBS approvals will be issued during this
period.

### June 2021  
Revised application fees commencing 1 July 2021

In accordance with the Australian Government Charging Framework, the
Department of Health and Aged Care has reviewed the costs associated with
applying for approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits.

The review of costs determined that 2021-22 application fees will be:

  * $3,080 for applications to establish a new or relocate an approved pharmacy
  * $1,050 for applications to change ownership or expand/contract the size of an approved pharmacy (not involving relocation).

The revised fees have received Ministerial approval and, subject to the
amendment to the _National Health (Application Fees for Pharmacist Approvals)
Determination 2020_ , they will come into effect on 1 July 2021.

The _Cost Recovery Implementation Statement: Approval process for pharmacists
seeking to provide Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme medicines, 2021-22_ will be
published on 1 July 2021 at [PBS Approved Suppliers – Application
Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-
approved-supplier-application-fees).

#### New form for requests for Ministerial Discretion

A new form and updated Guidelines are now available for requests for a
pharmacy approval under the Ministerial Discretion process.

The new form is approved for use from 17 June 2021. Any requests received on
or after 15 July 2021 that are not made on the new form will be invalid.
Applicants considering making a request should refer to the updated
[Ministerial Discretion
Guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-
scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms) for information on the process and
information to be included with a request.

### March 2021  
Scheduled Outage of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal

**From 8pm on Thursday 25 March until 7:30am on Friday 26 March 2021 (AEDT)**

The PBS Approved Suppliers Portal will not be available from 8pm on Thursday
25 March until 7:30am on Friday 26 March 2021 (AEDT).

The outage will allow for the following updates to the Portal:

  * The application form for approval to expand or contract the size of an approved pharmacy will be available via the Portal as an online form.
  * The declarations will be revised to include an acknowledgement from the applicant(s) that they are expected to email the Department (by 4pm on the day on which approval is required) to provide evidence that the new, relocated or resized pharmacy is open and trading and/or change of ownership matters have been settled.
  * The _Upload Documents_ function has been enhanced to include categories and sub‑categories. Portal users will be able to upload documents whether or not they are signed in to the Portal.
  * A new _Certificate Reissue_ function will be available from the Portal. Business owners will be able to request reissue of approval certificates whether or not they are signed in to the Portal.
  * The ability to submit surrounding pharmacy comments through the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal will be removed. Surrounding pharmacy comments will be accepted via email only.
  * Where an application has been considered by the Australian Community Pharmacy Authority, but the recommendation deferred, the status ‘Deferred’ will be displayed under _My Dashboard – Submitted Applications_.
  * Once issued, the Administration Number will be displayed under _My Dashboard – Submitted Applications_.
  * ‘Submitted’ and ‘In Progress’ statuses will no longer be displayed under _My Dashboard – Submitted Applications_.
  * The ability to run a Wildcard search will be available from _My Dashboard._

Draft applications will remain in the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal and retain
existing data. However, after the release, if applicable, Portal users should
click on the Declaration link again to generate and agree to the revised
Declaration before submitting an application.

**From Friday 26 March 2021:**

  * Applicants must use the Portal online form when applying for approval to expand or contract the size of an approved pharmacy.
  * All PDF forms must be submitted via the Portal using the _Upload Documents_ function.
  * If a business owner wishes to request reissue of a certificate, the request must be submitted via the Portal using the _Certificate Reissue_ function.
  * Pharmacists will no longer be able to submit surrounding pharmacy comments via the Portal. Comments should be emailed to [acpamail@health.gov.au](mailto:acpamail@health.gov.au).
  * A new ‘Notification of a change of company directors’ form will be available. This form must be used to notify change of company directors and must be submitted via the Portal using the _Upload Documents_ function.
  * Updated application guides and valid application checklist will be available from the Guides and Forms web page, and PDF forms will include new return instructions for lodgement via the Portal.

### November 2020  
Scheduled Outage of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal

From 8pm on Thursday 10 December until 7:30am on Friday 11 December 2020
(AEDT).

Due to the scheduled outage, the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal will not be
available from 8pm on Thursday 10 December until 7:30am on Friday 11 December
2020 (AEDT).

The outage will allow for the following updates to the Portal:

  * Removal of the requirement to enter current owner(s) contact nominee details in the Portal form. These details will now be requested in the ‘Current owner(s) declaration’ PDF form.
  * Trustee of a Trust will no longer be considered as an applicant and the option to select Trustee of a Trust as an organisation type will be removed from the Portal form. (Please refer to the notice below for further information about Trustee of a Trust.)

Draft applications will remain in the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal and retain
existing data _unless:_

  * **Current owner(s) contact nominee details** were provided, in which case you will need to ensure the updated ‘Current owner(s) declaration’ form is completed and attached to the application. Please note, applications submitted on or after 11 December 2020 _must_ have the new ‘Current owner(s) declaration’ form attached. The new ‘Current owner(s) declaration’ form will be available on the [Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms) webpage from 10 December 2020.
  * **Trustee of a Trust** was entered as an applicant and selected as an organisation type, in which case you will need to amend the applicant’s details to remove reference to the trust and, if an organisation, select either ‘Company’ or ‘Friendly Society’ as your organisation type.

#### Removal of Trustee of a Trust as an applicant and organisation type on
applications for approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits

####

Section 90 of the _National Health Act 1953_ (Act) provides for the Secretary
of the Department of Health and Aged Care to approve a pharmacist to supply
pharmaceutical benefits at particular premises. A **pharmacist** means a
person registered as a pharmacist or pharmaceutical chemist under a law of a
state or territory providing for the registration of pharmacists or
pharmaceutical chemists, and includes a friendly society or other body of
persons (whether corporate or unincorporate) carrying on business as a
pharmacist.

From 11 December 2020, the Department will no longer consider or reference
trusts when assessing and approving applications for approval to supply
pharmaceutical benefits. Therefore, applications for approval made on or after
this date should not include reference to a trust in the applicant details and
trust documents should no longer be provided.

References to trusts will be removed from application forms on the PBS
Approved Suppliers Portal from this date.

Evidence of the relevant state or territory pharmacy board approval will still
be required prior to the Delegate of the Secretary considering whether or not
to grant approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits. The Delegate will
continue to confirm that the details on the relevant pharmacy board approval
match those details on the application for approval to supply pharmaceutical
benefits, with the exception of any reference to trusts on the pharmacy board
approval.

#### PBS Approved Suppliers – End of year closure period

The Department of Health and Aged Care is closed from 3pm on 24 December 2020
to 1 January 2021 inclusive.

If you are planning to change ownership or other business details of an
approved pharmacy between mid‑December and mid‑January, please ensure that
your application is submitted by **27 November 2020** , noting that
applications will continue to be assessed within published time frames.

Applicants previously issued with an Administration Number wishing to request
an Approval Number may do so until **18 December 2020**.

Applications for consideration by the Australian Community Pharmacy Authority
should continue to be submitted in line with the submission dates at
[www.health.gov.au/acpa](www.health.gov.au/acpa).

The PBS Approved Suppliers Portal will be available for submission of
applications and notifications during the closure period; however, no
applications will be assessed and no PBS approvals will be issued.

### July 2020  
Scheduled Outage of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal

Commencing 7:30pm Thursday 6 August until 7:30am Friday 7 August 2020 (AEST)

Due to the scheduled outage, the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal will not be
available from 7:30pm Thursday 6 August until 7:30am Friday 7 August 2020
(AEST). The scheduled outage will allow for the following updates to the
Portal.

**Key changes to PBS Approved Suppliers Portal**

  1. The current _Notification of Payer Details_ downloadable PDF form for applicants to provide the Department of Health and Aged Care information to generate an invoice, will be part of the online applications as an online form in the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal. Subsequently, the downloadable PDF form will be removed from the PBS Approved Suppliers website on 7 August 2020.
  2. Online credit card payments for application fees will be available through the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal after the application submission process. Portal users will be prompted to make an online credit card payment or download the invoice for other methods of payments upon submission of their application.
  3. Invoices for application fees will be available to download and view in the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal. Portal users will be able to access their invoice after the application submission process, from their dashboard.

**Important:** Draft applications in progress will be removed at the
commencement of this scheduled outage. Unless you submit your application
prior to the scheduled outage, please ensure you have saved your supporting
documents.  

### May 2020  
Introduction of application fees in July 2020 for pharmacists seeking approval
to supply pharmaceutical benefits

In the 2018-19 Federal Budget, the Australian Government announced that
application fees would be introduced for pharmacists seeking approval to
supply pharmaceutical benefits. The application fees are to cover the cost of
the regulatory activity, which includes work undertaken by both the Department
of Health and Aged Care and the Australian Community Pharmacy Authority. The
application fees will apply to applications submitted to the Department of
Health and Aged Care from 1 July 2020.

As stated in the [National Health (Application Fees for Pharmacist Approvals)
Determination 2020](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2020L00520), the
fee amounts are as follows:

  * The fee for applications assessed by the Australian Community Pharmacy Authority, will be $5,530. This fee will apply to applications for approval to:
    * establish a new pharmacy to supply pharmaceutical benefits, and
    * relocate an approved pharmacy (with or without change of ownership).
  * The fee for applications assessed by the Department of Health and Aged Care will be $920. This fee will apply to applications for approval to:
    * change ownership of an approved pharmacy (not involving relocation), and
    * expand or contract the size of an approved pharmacy.

The legislation requires that an application must be accompanied by the
application fee; therefore, from 1 July 2020, an applicant’s payer details
must be provided when one of the above application types is submitted to the
Department of Health and Aged Care.

Applications from medical practitioners and hospital authorities seeking
approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits will not incur a fee.

More information can be found on our Frequently Asked Questions webpage. If
you have any further questions about the introduction of application fees for
pharmacists seeking approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits, please email
details of your enquiry to
[pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au](mailto:pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au).

### April 2020  
Scheduled Outage of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal

Commencing 7:30pm Thursday 28 May until 7:30am Friday 29 May 2020 (AEST)

Due to the scheduled outage, the Portal will not be available from 7:30pm
Thursday 28 May until 7:30am Friday 29 May 2020 (AEST). The scheduled outage
will allow for the following updates to the Portal.  

**Key changes to PBS Approved Suppliers Portal**

  1. The current _Authority for a representative to prepare and submit an application on behalf of the applicant_ form will be replaced by the _Appointment of a representative to prepare and submit an application_ form. An appointed representative for an application will be prompted to complete and upload the _Appointment of a representative to prepare and submit an application form_ (where applicable) to the Declaration section of the Portal. This form will no longer be required to be attached to the Other Documents section of the [PBS Approved Suppliers Portal](https://pbsapprovedsuppliers.health.gov.au).

The Applicant(s) Declaration will no longer be required as a separate
attachment. This requirement will be replaced with a check box within the
Declaration section of the Portal to indicate the declaration has been made.

  2. If an application has omissions or inconsistencies and is deemed invalid, completion of a new application will no longer be required. The original application will be returned and will appear on the submitter’s dashboard as a draft application for resubmission.The application’s contact nominee will be notified by email on the details of the errors or omissions, and be advised how to resubmit through the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal. The application lodgement date will be the date the application is resubmitted.

### April 2020  
Impact of COVID-19 on Approved Pharmacies

The Department of Health and Aged Care is aware of a number of Approved
Pharmacies that have closed or changed their business arrangements due to the
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.

It is preferable that pharmacies remain open where possible to ensure that the
community has ongoing access to PBS medicines.  

However, if an approved pharmacy needs to close due to a COVID-19 related
reason and for more than a couple of days, please email
[pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au](mailto:pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au)
with:

  * the approval number and location
  * the reason for closing and intended period of closure
  * details of how the community will access medicines during that period.

Please also advise when an approved pharmacy needs to significantly reduce
trading hours.

The Department will then work with the individual pharmacies to determine if a
formal deactivation of the approval is appropriate.

This information will assist in determining risks to ongoing access to PBS
medicines by the community and allow for action to be taken as necessary to
mitigate such risks.

### March 2020  
Postponement of the introduction of application fees for pharmacists seeking
approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits

The Department of Health recently advised that, commencing 21 April 2020,
application fees would be introduced for pharmacists seeking approval to
supply pharmaceutical benefits. However, in light of the current exceptional
circumstances, the introduction of pharmacy approval application fees has been
postponed until early next financial year, with the exact date to be
confirmed.

The Department will provide confirmation of the date and fee levels as soon as
known.

### March 2020  
Introduction of application fees for pharmacists seeking approval to supply
pharmaceutical benefits

Please note, this advice is to provide notice of the planned introduction of
application fees for pharmacists seeking approval to supply pharmaceutical
benefits. The introduction date and fee levels detailed below are subject to
official endorsement. When the date and fee levels are confirmed, the
Department of Health will provide updated advice.

In the 2018-19 Federal Budget, the Australian Government announced that cost
recovery application fees would be introduced for pharmacists seeking approval
to supply pharmaceutical benefits. The application fees are to cover the cost
of the regulatory activity, which includes work undertaken by both the
Department of Health and the Australian Community Pharmacy Authority. From 21
April 2020 (to be confirmed), the Department of Health will introduce the
application fees.

The fee for applications assessed by the Australian Community Pharmacy
Authority is expected to be approximately $5,500. This fee will apply to
applications for approval to:

  * establish a new pharmacy to supply pharmaceutical benefits, and 
  * relocate an approved pharmacy (with or without change of ownership). 

The fee for applications assessed by the Department of Health is expected to
be approximately $900. This fee will apply to applications for approval to:

  * change ownership of an approved pharmacy (not involving relocation), and 
  * expand or contract the size of an approved pharmacy. 

The legislation requires that an application must be accompanied by the
application fee; therefore, from 21 April 2020 (to be confirmed), an
applicant’s payment details must be provided when one of the above application
types is submitted to the Department of Health.

Applications from medical practitioners and hospital authorities seeking
approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits will not incur a fee.

If you have any questions about the introduction of application fees for
pharmacists seeking approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits, please email
details of your enquiry to
[pbsapprovedsuppliers](mailto:pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au).

### October 2019 PBS Approved Suppliers Portal and new telephone number are
now live.

The [PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal](https://pbsapprovedsuppliers.health.gov.au/) is now live and available
for lodging applications for approval to supply pharmaceutical benefits.

Please visit the [FAQ](pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-
administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions) web page for user guides
and further details about the functions available in the new PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal.

Supplementary information about the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal is provided
in the September 2019 News Update (refer section below).

Additionally, PBS Approved Suppliers has a new telephone number **1800 316
389** to assist with any queries you may have in relation to the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal or anything PBS Approved Suppliers related. Standard
operating hours for the PBS Approved Suppliers number are Monday – Friday,
8:30am – 5pm (ACT Time).

### September 2019  
Information for pharmacists, medical practitioners and hospital authorities –
introduction of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal on 9 October 2019.

With the introduction of the PBS Approved Suppliers Portal on 9 October 2019,
a number of changes to the process for lodging applications and other forms
will come into effect.

For further details please see:

FOR PHARMACISTS  
[Information for pharmacists – introduction of the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal (PDF 524 KB)](0C24DA93B5973DE5CA25859600033C36/$File/Information-for-
Pharmacists-Introduction-of-the-PBS-Approved-Suppliers-Portal.pdf)  
[Information for pharmacists – introduction of the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal (Word 26 KB)](0C24DA93B5973DE5CA25859600033C36/$File/Information-for-
Pharmacists-Introduction-of-the-PBS-Approved-Suppliers-Portal.docx)

[Information for pharmacists – Changes to pharmacy approval application
processes (PDF 558 KB)](0C24DA93B5973DE5CA25859600033C36/$File/Information-
for-Pharmacists-Changes-to-pharmacy-approval-application-processes.pdf)  
[Information for pharmacists – Changes to pharmacy approval application
processes (Word 26 KB)](0C24DA93B5973DE5CA25859600033C36/$File/Information-
for-Pharmacists-Changes-to-pharmacy-approval-application-processes.docx)

FOR MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS  
[Information for Medical Practitioners – Introduction of the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal (PDF 401
KB)](0C24DA93B5973DE5CA25859600033C36/$File/Information-for-Medical-
Practitioners-Introduction-of-the-PBS-Approved-Suppliers-Portal.pdf)  
[Information for Medical Practitioners – Introduction of the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal (Word 19
KB)](0C24DA93B5973DE5CA25859600033C36/$File/Information-for-Medical-
Practitioners-Introduction-of-the-PBS-Approved-Suppliers-Portal.docx)

FOR HOSPITAL AUTHORITIES  
[Information for Hospital Authorities – Introduction of the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal (PDF 403
KB)](0C24DA93B5973DE5CA25859600033C36/$File/Information-for-Hospital-
Authorities-Introduction-of-the-PBS-Approved-Suppliers-Portal.pdf)  
[Information for Hospital Authorities – Introduction of the PBS Approved
Suppliers Portal (Word 25
KB)](0C24DA93B5973DE5CA25859600033C36/$File/Information-for-Hospital-
Authorities-Introduction-of-the-PBS-Approved-Suppliers-Portal.docx)

### August 2019  
Changes to the process for hospital authorities requesting approval for
private hospitals to prescribe and/or supply highly specialised drugs (HSDs)

From 1 August 2019, hospital authorities will no longer be required to seek
separate approval from the Department of Health’s HSD Program when applying
for approval for private hospitals to prescribe and/or supply HSDs.

The process will be integrated into the application form Application for a
hospital authority to prescribe and/or supply pharmaceutical benefits and/or
highly specialised drugs. This form is to be completed by hospital authorities
requesting approval under sections 94 or 100 of the _National Health Act
1953_.

The key changes to the form are:

  * Advice concerning the need for private hospitals to seek separate approval from the HSD Program has been removed.
  * Question 1 on the revised form now includes an option to select a private hospital seeking to prescribe HSDs only, and the wording has been updated to clearly describe the other types of approval for which this form can be used.
  * The declaration wording has been updated.

The application form is available on the [Hospital Authorities](hospital-
authorities) page.

### June 2019  
Delayed introduction of application fees

The Department of Health has been working towards introducing application fees
from 1 July 2019 for pharmacists seeking approval to supply PBS medicines.
However, as a result of the federal election on 18 May 2019, the introduction
of application fees will be delayed.

An update about the timing for introducing the fees will be provided as soon
as further details are available.

## Contact the Department of Health

For enquires about PBS approval applications or the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal, please email details of your enquiry to
[pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au](mailto:pbsapprovedsuppliers@health.gov.au)
or call PBS Approved Suppliers on 1800 316 389.

## Contact Services Australia (formerly the Department of Human Services)

Service Australia will continue to oversee patient eligibility and PBS claim
payments.

In order to set up PBS claiming with Services Australia, download the online
claiming and ABN forms below, fill out all details along with the Pharmacy
Approval Number issued to you and email to Services Australia at the address
on each form.

Service Australia cannot pay for PBS medicines supplied if you have not
submitted these forms.

  * Online Claiming - [Online claiming for Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme - Application and terms and conditions form](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/forms/pb010)
  * ABN - [Notification of Australian Business Number and reference identification for tax treatment purposes and Recipient Created Tax Invoice agreement form](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/forms/hw055)  
Once the forms have been received and processed, Services Australia will issue
you with a digital certificate.  
Read more about online claiming for the PBS on the [Services Australia
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/pbs-pharmacists/claiming/claiming-online-pbs-
medicines) or call 1800 700 199

  * To check patient eligibility or script authority queries – please phone 132 290 
  

### In this section

    * [ __New or relocating pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa)
    * [ __Application Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-application-fees)
    * [ __Deactivation of an approved pharmacist - guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/deactivation-of-an-approvedppharmacist-guidelines)
    * [ __Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ __Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms)
    * [ __Minister’s discretionary power to approve a pharmacist](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ministerial-discretion)
    *  **[ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers - Archived news updates](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-updates)**
    * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [ __Privacy and your personal information](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/form-privacy-note)
    * [ __Terms of Use for PBS Approved Suppliers Portal](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-terms-of-use-for-pharmacy-approvals-portal)
    * [ __Contact us](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-contact-us)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fpharmaceutical-
benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-
updates "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
  * [Pharmacists](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmacists)
  * [Hospital Authorities](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hospital-authorities)
  * [Medical Practitioners](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-practitioners)
  * [Application Fees](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-application-fees)
  * [Frequently Asked Questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-frequently-asked-questions)
  * [Guides and Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-guides-and-forms)
  * [Minister’s discretionary power to approve a pharmacist](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ministerial-discretion)
  * [New or relocating pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/acpa)
  * [Archived news updates](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions-archived-news-updates)
  * [Contact us](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-contact-us)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **third** and **last** digits of 422366

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

