Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1) /
  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu) /

# Review of the eligibility of retirement visa holders for Medicare under
relevant reciprocal health care agreements

This review considers the history and rationale behind the current government
policy that holders of the Retirement Visa (Subclass 410) (the 410 visa) are
not eligible for Medicare entitlements regardless of whether their country of
origin has a Reciprocal Health Care Agreement (RHCA) with Australia and
proposes a mechanism to consider applications for Medicare eligibility for 410
visa holders for those from RHCA countries in exceptional circumstances.

 __Page last updated: 11 December 2012

[Printable version of the Review of 410 Visa Eligibility Report (PDF 276
KB)](EF1F5A44B5C759C4CA257BF0001ACC7D/$File/Review%20of%20410%20visa%20eligibility%20report_FINAL-
UK%20form.docx.pdf) and the [Draft RHCA Eligibility Assessment Guide (PDF 83
KB)](EF1F5A44B5C759C4CA257BF0001ACC7D/$File/~410%20RHCA%20Self-
assessment%20form.pdf)  
  

## Reciprocal Health Care Agreements & ‘Ordinarily Resident’

Section 7 of the _Health Insurance Act 1973_ (the HIA) permits the Australian
Government to enter into a Reciprocal Health Care Agreement (RHCA) with other
countries for the purpose of providing health care to residents of one country
when visiting the other. These RHCAs operate in only a few countries where the
health systems are similar and it has been agreed that there should be no
financial reconciliation between the two parties dependent on the relative use
of each country’s health services.  
  
Australia currently has RHCAs with eleven countries including New Zealand, the
United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Norway, the
Netherlands, Italy, Belgium, Malta and Slovenia. With the exception of the
agreement with Italy, all RHCAs are based on a ‘cost waiver’ principle, where
each country fully absorbs the costs of providing health care to visitors. To
be eligible under a RHCA a person must be:

  * ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or the Republic of Ireland; or 
  * a New Zealand resident; or 
  * a resident of Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Belgium or Slovenia who is insured in that country’s health system; and 
  * temporarily in Australia. 

The RHCAs define temporarily in Australia in different ways. In relation to:

  * the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Sweden, Finland and Norway, it means ‘lawfully present but not ordinarily resident’; 
  * New Zealand, the Netherlands, Belgium and Slovenia, it means ‘lawfully present but not resident’; 
  * Malta, it means ‘present for a period not exceeding 6 months’; and 
  * Italy, it is not specified, although that agreement does specify that it applies only for six months from the visitor’s time of arrival.

To be eligible to receive Medicare in Australia under the RHCA with the UK, a
person must be:

  * ordinarily resident in the UK; and 
  * lawfully present but not ordinarily resident in Australia.

Proof of residence of the UK is defined in the RHCA as a current UK passport,
including a passport issued in the Isle of Man, Jersey or Guernsey, or as
appropriate one of the following;

  * a National Health Service Medical Card (Great Britain and the Isle of Man); or 
  * a Health Service Medical Card (Northern Ireland); or 
  * a certificate issued by Social Security Committee of the States of Jersey; or 
  * proof of Insurance issued by the Guernsey States Insurance Authority; or 
  * other proof of residence in the Bailiwick of Guernsey.

The RHCA does not refer to the European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) as a form
of evidence because the introduction of the EHIC is a relatively recent
development. However, an EHIC bearing the initials ‘UK’ would also be
considered proof of residence for the purposes of RHCA eligibility. Once they
have established their eligibility, UK visitors are entitled to Medicare
coverage under the RHCA for the duration of their visa.  
  
The term ‘ordinarily resident’ is not defined in the UK RHCA. The UK relies on
case law in this area. For example, the UK National Insurance Manual, which
provides guidance on the law relating to National Insurance contributions,
cites the House of Lords:  
…in their ordinary and natural meaning the words [ordinarily resident] mean
‘that the person must be habitually and normally resident here, apart from
temporary or occasional absences of long or short duration’.  
  
The term ‘ordinarily resident’ is not defined in Australian health
legislation. A person’s residency status and consequent eligibility or
ineligibility under a RHCA is taken to be a question of fact based on the
person’s individual circumstances.  
  
This Department has taken the view that ordinarily resident refers to a
person’s abode in a particular place or country which he or she has adopted
voluntarily and for settled purposes as part of the regular order of his or
her life for the time being, whether of short or of long duration.  
  

### Retirement Visa (Subclass 410) & Investor Retirement Visa (Subclass 405)

In the _Migration Regulations 1994_ , as of December 1994, reference is made
to a person who ‘intends to settle in Australia’ (see 4.10.224). In the
current form of the Regulations reference is made to a person who ‘intends to
reside in Australia’ (see 410.221 Schedule 3).  
  
In December 1988, prompted by concerns that permanently resident foreign
retirees could place above-average demands on the Australian health and social
welfare system, the Government abolished the permanent entry of self-
supporting retirees and created a temporary entry visa, the _Retirement Visa
(Subclass 410)_ , for extended stay retirees in a sound financial position. It
was designed for retirees and their partner who wanted to spend some of their
retirement years in Australia.  
  
The Investor Retirement Visa (Subclass 405) (the 405 visa) came into force
under the _Migration Regulations 1994_ on 1 July 2005 and replaced the 410
visa. It is designed for self-funded retirees aged 55 years or older who have
no dependants, who want to reside in Australia during their retirement years
and are able to make a significant long term financial investment in
Australia. The 405 temporary visa is not a pathway to a permanent visa or
Australian permanent residence or citizenship. Applicants for 405 visas have a
mandatory requirement to hold and maintain adequate health insurance.  
  
The 410 visas have always been intended to provide for persons who intend to
reside in Australia, without becoming a ‘permanent resident’, rather than
wishing merely to visit Australia temporarily. In establishing the 410 visa
subclass it was assumed that the related transfer of visa holders’ capital
would be of some benefit to Australia and that this capital transfer plus the
pension and/or other income of the visa holders would help to ensure that
these persons were not a burden on Australia’s health and social welfare
systems.  
  
Prior to 1 December 1998, holders of 410 visas from RHCA countries were
provided with Medicare coverage under the relevant RHCA. However, a range of
developments in 1998 led the Department to reconsider its policy position on
410 visa holders’ eligibility for Medicare access under an RHCA.  
  
Holders of 410 visas from RHCA countries who applied for their visa after 1
December 1998 have been held to be ineligible for Medicare under the RHCAs
because the department has taken the view that a successful application for a
410 visa is a reasonable indication that the person will be ‘ordinarily
resident’ in Australia once they are in the country. They have adopted
Australian abode voluntarily and for settled purposes as part of the regular
order of their life.  
  
The validity of this view has been challenged on a number of fronts. The first
is that 410 visas are ‘temporary’, rather than ‘permanent’, for the purposes
of migration law, and that it follows that holders of 410 visas cannot be held
to be resident in Australia. As outlined above, the fact that a 410 visa falls
within the classification of ‘temporary visa’ is not inconsistent with the
assessment that holders of 410 visas are ‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia.  
  
Secondly, claims have been made that some 410 visa holders are ordinarily
resident in the UK and therefore meet the requirements for access to the
relevant RHCA. This appears to be predicated upon the assumption that someone
who is ‘ordinarily resident’ in the UK cannot also be ‘ordinarily resident’ in
Australia at the same time. There is no legal basis for that assumption.  
  
Given that each 410 visa holder has implicitly expressed the intention to be
‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia, this would suggest that they are
ineligible to access treatment under the RHCA, regardless of whether they are
also ‘ordinarily resident’ in the UK.  
  
This approach has been consistently supported by the information that is made
available to 410 visa applicants and 410 visa holders. Applicants were advised
that a condition of the visa was that they ‘would not be entitled to public
health cover and would be expected to take out private medical and hospital
insurance prior to their arrival in Australia’. There has also been consistent
advice provided that such persons will be ineligible to access the RHCA.  
  
However, the position is made more complex by the fact that it is only
possible to be confident that a person is, or is not, ‘ordinarily resident’ in
Australia by examining the circumstances of the particular case. It is also
apparent that the circumstances of an individual can change over time. For
instance, a person may initially be ‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia, and
that status may change over time, where (for instance) a person leaves
Australia for a substantial period of time and may revert to their original
position subsequently.  
  
The Department is aware from discussions with the British Expat Retirees in
Australia (BERIA) that there are 410 visa holders in straitened financial
circumstances, particularly following the global financial crisis (GFC), and
changes to pension arrangements in the UK. There are emerging concerns about
the ability of older visa holders to continue to meet their health care
requirements as an extension of their stay in Australia as they age,
particularly for persons who may not be in a physical condition to travel to
their home country. They may also have limited or no remaining connections
with their home country.  
  
Concerns have also been expressed about the costs of expensive but necessary
pharmaceuticals, such as chemotherapy drugs, and about access to palliative
care. These costs attract only limited rebates under available private health
insurance policies. There are also concerns about increasing premiums and
reducing cover for private health insurance policies available to 410 and 405
visa holders.  
  

### British Expat Retirees in Australia

The _British Expat Retirees in Australia_ (BERIA) lobby group represents the
interests of around 25% of all 410 visa holders in Australia. BERIA’s stated
aim is to persuade the Australian Government to grant permanent residence to
those 410 visa holders who desire it.  
  
At a meeting with Departmental officials in February 2008, Mr John Wittering,
then Vice President of BERIA, raised a number of issues relevant to the 410
visa, not all of which related specifically to access to Medicare, but noted
the temporary nature of the 410 visa _‘although we have all come to Australia
to retire, i.e. to spend the rest of our lives here, in the eyes of the
Department of Immigration we are temporary residents, ….and we can never
become permanent residents or citizens….some of our residents have lived here
for 20 years’_.  
  
BERIA on behalf of its membership, and individual members of BERIA, have also
raised their concerns about the post-1998 410 visa arrangements with regard to
Medicare access with the Department over a number of years and through a range
of formal channels including departmental and ministerial correspondence and
parliamentary questions on notice. BERIA’s concerns include:

  * the increasing costs of health insurance for 410 visa holders; 
  * the disparity in access to Medicare for 410 visa holders; and 
  * the circumstance that the long-term nature of the visa has enabled them to make significant social and economic contributions to Australia, while the visa’s temporary status has created an environment of uncertainty in which they could find themselves returning, in their advancing years, to a home country with which many have cut all ties.

It is understood that 410 visa holders who applied for their visas in late
1998/early 1999 believed they would be granted permanent residency after 10
years based on documentation and advice about a Bill to this effect, but the
Bill was defeated in the upper house of Parliament.  
  
Visa applicants and holders should be cognisant of the fact that conditions
applying to a visa are routinely reviewed and advice provided to Government
accordingly. Any consequential amendments are a matter for Government.  
  
BERIA is also concerned that 410 holders have to take out private ‘visitors’
health insurance cover which is much more expensive than insurance available
to Australians, but which may not be entirely relevant to a retiree age
profile. Additionally, for the purposes of taking out private health
insurance, 410 holders are considered to be ‘visitors’ however they are not
considered to be ‘visitors’ in the context of Medicare and the Pharmaceutical
Benefits Scheme (PBS) eligibility under RHCAs.  
  

### Medicare access and the 410 Visa Holder

A range of developments in 1998 led the Department of Health to reconsider its
policy position on 410 visa holders’ eligibility for Medicare access under
RHCAs:

  * an exchange of letters in May 1998 between the UK and Australia which amended the terms of the RHCA to change the length of coverage under the RHCA from the original six months to the duration of the visitor’s stay. The changes in part recognised the need to extend the period of the RHCA’s coverage beyond the original six months, given the changes to Medicare access for temporary visitors. This was effected by a change to the RHCA’s definition of ‘temporarily in the territory’ of Australia from ‘present in that territory for a period not exceeding six months’ to ‘lawfully present, but not ordinarily resident’ in Australia. This and other amendments resulted in a new (second) RHCA between the two countries which was made on 29 May 1998 and came into effect on 8 March 2000. 
  * two British 410 visa holders complained to the UK High Commission over their obligation to pay the Medicare levy. They had provided their own health insurance and wanted to opt out of the RHCA on the basis that they were no longer residents of the UK. The Department was advised that the RHCA was intended to provide benefits to residents of the UK while on temporary stays in Australia. Retiree visa holders, by virtue of their intention to reside for an extended period in Australia, are unlikely to be ordinarily resident in the UK and hence are not covered by the RHCA, notwithstanding that their visas are only temporary permits. This appeared to be generally applicable and relevant as the change is clarification to ‘lawfully present, but not ordinarily resident’. 
  * proposed amendments to the Migration Regulations 1994, effective from 1 November 1998, would have provided for those 410 holders who had been resident in Australia for ten years to apply for permanent residency under new parent visa categories. This legislation was, however, disallowed by the Senate on 31 March 1999. 
  * at the same time, mandatory visa conditions were applied to all new 410 visa applicants. From 1 December 1998, new applicants were required to have adequate health insurance providing cover at least equivalent to Medicare and providing pharmaceutical cover. In addition, applicants were required to meet financial criteria which reflected changes in the Consumer Price Index. The Department of Immigration continued to assess those 410 visa holders who made their applications prior to 1 December 1998 against the previous arrangements.

These developments in combination resulted in the Department taking the view
that a successful application for a 410 visa is a reasonable indication that
the person will be ‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia once they are in the
country. They have adopted Australian abode voluntarily and for settled
purposes as part of the regular order of their life.  
  
Given that each 410 visa holder has implicitly expressed the intention to be
‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia, this would suggest that they are
ineligible to access treatment under the RHCA, regardless of whether they are
also ‘ordinarily resident’ in the UK.  
  
Consequently, on 18 November 1998, the then Health Insurance Commission (HIC)
wrote to 410 visa holders from RHCA countries and advised them that their
entitlement to Medicare had formally ceased on 1 November 1998, but that they
would be allowed to access Medicare until 31 December 1998. The reason given
for the cessation of Medicare access was that their eligibility had been due
to a generous interpretation of the RHCA’s terms, and that this position had
changed as the facts in most cases no longer supported the contention that 410
visa holders from a RHCA country were resident in that country (as required by
RHCA eligibility criteria). This letter also advised recipients that as their
entitlement to Medicare had ceased, they could apply for an exemption from
paying the Medicare levy.  
  
A separate letter was sent to new 410 visa applicants who had applied after 1
November 1998, advising them that they were not entitled to Medicare under the
410 visa arrangements. At the same time, the DIAC website advised of the need
for adequate health insurance as a mandatory visa condition for new 410
applicants from 1 December 1998, and advised applicants that they would not be
entitled to Medicare or social security benefits unless a reciprocal
arrangement was in place between their home country and Australia.  
  
In February 1999, following expressions of concern from some UK visa holders,
the policy regarding access to health cover under the reciprocal arrangements
was brought into line with the Department of Immigration’s approach which is
that all 410 visa holders from reciprocal agreement countries who applied for
their visa prior to 1 December 1998 were offered the choice of either
retaining the health cover available under their RHCA or opting to obtain
adequate health insurance and applying for a Medicare Levy exemption, while
the new policy was applied only to those 410 visa holders who made their
applications on or after 1 December 1998.  
  
In 2005, changes to Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of the _Migration Regulations
1994_ , effective from 1 July 2005 (Migration Amendment Regulations 2005 No.3)
closed the 410 visa subclass to new applicants (except for a new spouse of a
410 visa holder and previous holders of the 410 visa who have not held another
substantive visa).  
  
To accommodate the closure of the 410 visa subclass to new applicants, a new
temporary Investor Retirement Visa (Subclass 405) was created _‘for persons of
retirement age who can benefit Australia through significant investment in
State/Territory government bonds, and whose presence in Australia will be at
no net cost to the Australian community.’_ Visa Condition 8501, which imposes
the requirement for adequate health insurance, that is, _fully comprehensive,
providing cover that is at least equivalent to Medicare (including cover of
85% of costs for hospital, emergency and GP services), and providing coverage
for pharmaceuticals_ is mandatory for this visa.  
  
Persons who applied for a 410 visa after 1 December 1998 are advised on the
Medicare website and on the visa application form that they are not eligible
for enrolment in the Medicare program and are not eligible under the
applicable RHCA.  
  
Current Visa Condition 8501 requiring the holder to take out adequate health
insurance is applied to all 410 visas, except to visas held by pre-1 December
1998 applicants who have elected RHCA coverage and are enrolled in Medicare.  
  

### Medicare Eligibility and Entitlements

Medicare is the foundation of Australia’s public health care system and
provides Australians with access to health services at no or reduced
(subsidised) cost. Eligibility for Medicare is governed by the HIA, and
eligible persons can choose to have Medicare cover only, or a combination of
Medicare and private health insurance. An ‘eligible person’ is defined in
subsection 3(1) of the HIA, as either an Australian resident or an ‘eligible
overseas representative’.  
  
The category of ‘Australian resident’ includes persons who reside in Australia
and are either New Zealand citizens, holders of permanent residence visas and
applicants for permanent residence in certain circumstances. Eligible overseas
representatives include members of a diplomatic mission and their families,
from countries with which Australia has a RHCA.  
  
From the inception of Medicare in 1984, all persons legally entitled to remain
in Australia for longer than a 6 month period, including the Class 410 permit
holders, were able to access Medicare from their arrival date in Australia by
virtue of being determined as ‘eligible persons’ under subsection 6(1) orders
dated 24 January 1984 (revoked and replaced on 7 March 1984) and 7 March 1984
(revoked and replaced on 25 August 1986).  
  
With the introduction of RHCAs from 1986, subsection 7(2) of the HIA allowed
for persons to whom an RHCA applied to be treated as ‘eligible persons’ for
the purposes of the HIA. The first agreements, signed with the United Kingdom
(UK), Northern Ireland and New Zealand, came into force on 1 July1986,
followed by agreements with Italy (1988), Malta (1988) and Sweden (1989).
These RHCAs provided coverage for six months only, because any visitor staying
longer than six months had full Medicare access from their date of arrival.  
  
However, during 1988, changes were made to the definition of ‘Australian
resident’ under subsection 3(1) of the HIA which restricted Medicare
eligibility to persons who were lawfully permanent residents of Australia.
These changes to Medicare eligibility were in line with changes to eligibility
for social security benefits and ‘veterans’ entitlements that were made in
1987.  
  
As persons who did not meet the new definition of ‘Australian resident’ were
not eligible for Medicare, the 1984 and 1986 subsection 6(1) orders
determining that all persons (including 410 holders) entitled to stay in
Australia longer than 6 months were eligible for Medicare, were revoked
effective from 1 February 1989.  
  
To cover persons who were residents of a RHCA country as at 1 February 1989
but staying longer than the six-month period covered by RHCAs at that time,
subsection 6(1) orders were issued, effective from 1 February 1989, in
relation to the RHCAs with the UK and Northern Ireland, New Zealand and
Sweden. These orders granted persons from these countries, who were visiting
Australia for longer than six months, benefits equivalent to the benefits
available under the terms of the relevant RHCA.  
  
Under the legislative framework in place since 1 February 1989, persons coming
to Australia are not eligible for Medicare unless they:

  * meet the definition of ‘Australian resident’ under subsection 3(1) of the HIA; or 
  * are from a RHCA country and meet the eligibility criteria for the relevant RHCA; or 
  * are the subject of a subsection 6(1) order. 

Generally, in order to meet the conditions of Medicare eligibility under the
RHCAs a person must be ‘ordinarily resident’ in their home country and either
‘not ordinarily resident in Australia’ or ‘lawfully present but not resident
in Australia’.  
  
A person may also be determined to be an ‘eligible person’ by an order under
subsection 6(1) of the HIA. Whilst subsection 6(1) provides the Minister for
Health with discretionary powers to make Medicare-ineligible persons eligible,
since1990 due to changes to health and migration legislation, subsection 6(1)
has been rarely used for ad hoc requests relating to individuals. The overhaul
of the Migration Act in 1994 made visas compulsory for all categories of entry
with visa conditions strengthened to minimise the impact of visitors on public
resources, through health checks and health insurance requirements. Subsection
6(1) orders are therefore made only where they are captured under a defined
policy approval supported by relevant legislation and the broader policy
context including that access to Medicare should be in line with immigration
policy (that is, where visa conditions allow access) and with Government
objectives in relation to humanitarian and other groups.  
  
Visitors to Australia from RHCA countries, who are eligible under the RHCA,
are treated under subsection 7(2) of the HIA as eligible persons during their
stay in Australia, with Medicare access determined by the terms of the
relevant RHCA.  
  
Eligible persons must enroll with the Department of Human Services
(DHS)-Medicare to receive Medicare benefits, and will be issued with one of
three types of Medicare card:

  * green Medicare card is issued to permanent Australian residents. Cards may be issued for individuals or families; or 
  * blue Medicare card bearing the words ‘Interim Card’ is issued to applicants for permanent residence; or 
  * visitors to Australia from RHCA countries receive a yellow Medicare card bearing the words ‘Reciprocal Health Care’. 

Medicare covers services provided only in Australia. It does not subsidise or
refund treatment overseas, or overseas medical evacuation expenses. Medicare
provides access to free treatment as a public patient in a public hospital,
and for services by doctors outside a hospital, Medicare will reimburse 100%
of the fee specified in the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) for a general
practitioner and 85% of the MBS fee for other practitioners. If a doctor bills
Medicare directly—‘bulk billing’, where the doctor accepts the patient benefit
as full payment for the service—the patient does not have to pay anything.  
  
Medicare entitlements include free treatment as a public patient in a public
hospital, and subsidised medicines through the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(PBS). For out-of-hospital services provided by private practitioners,
Medicare provides patients benefits for:

  * consultations with doctors, including specialists; 
  * tests and examinations by doctors needed to treat illnesses, such as x-rays and pathology tests; 
  * eye tests performed by optometrists; 
  * most surgical and other therapeutic procedures performed by doctors; 
  * some surgical procedures performed by approved dentists; 
  * specific items under the Cleft Lip and Cleft Palate Scheme; and 
  * specific items under the Enhanced Primary Care (EPC) program.

Where people receive treatment in hospital as a private patient they are
eligible for a Medicare benefit equal to 75% of the MBS fee. If they hold
private health insurance (PHI), they may also receive a rebate from their PHI
fund (see below).  
  
Medicare does not cover:

  * private patient hospital costs (for example, theatre fees or accommodation); 
  * medical and hospital costs incurred overseas; 
  * medical and hospital services which are not clinically necessary, or surgery solely for cosmetic reasons; 
  * examinations for life insurance, superannuation or memberships for which someone else is responsible (for example, a compensation insurer, employer or government authority); 
  * ambulance services; 
  * most dental examinations and treatment; 
  * most physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, eye therapy, chiropractic services, podiatry or psychology services; 
  * acupuncture (unless part of a doctor's consultation); 
  * glasses and contact lenses; 
  * hearing aids and other appliances; or 
  * home nursing.

The PBS is available to all Australian residents who hold a current Medicare
card. The PBS provides affordable access for all Australian residents to
effective and cost-effective medicines. As holders of a Medicare card,
visitors from RHCA countries and other visa holders who are eligible for a
Medicare card are able to access PBS entitlements.  
  

### Overseas visitors health insurance and overseas visitors access to
Medicare

While Medicare covers Australian residents for a wide range of health
services, it does not cover everything. Private health insurance (PHI)
provides consumers with additional health care options and more comprehensive
cover for hospital and/or general treatment. The PHI industry is regulated by
the _Private Health Insurance Act 2007 (PHI Act)_. This legislation:

  * provides incentives to encourage people to have private health insurance; 
  * sets out the rules governing private health insurance products; and 
  * imposes requirements about how insurers conduct health insurance business.

Unlike Australian citizens who can use Medicare for their medical expenses and
as private patients their hospital expenses, overseas visitors who hold
temporary visas aren’t generally eligible to use Medicare. However under
certain circumstances, Medicare may be available.  
  
Eligibility and non-eligibility for Medicare for visitors can be grouped into
three categories:  
a. visitors from RHCA countries are eligible for immediately necessary medical
treatment if they are eligible under the RHCA. These RHCAs provide for free
public hospital treatment, Medicare benefits for out-of-hospital services and
subsidised pharmaceuticals through the PBS. (The RHCAs with New Zealand and
Ireland only provide public hospital services and PBS drugs.); or  
b. visitors who are subject to a HIA subsection 6(1) order. Subsection 6(1)
orders enable the person(s) covered by the order to be treated as an eligible
person for the purposes of Medicare eligibility for the period specified in
the order. The extent of their access to Medicare will be determined by any
conditions specified in the order; or  
c). visitors who are not from a RHCA country, or do not a have subsection 6(1)
order in place, are not eligible for Medicare at all.  
  
While visitors from reciprocal health care countries are eligible for certain
benefits under Medicare, they are not eligible to receive Medicare benefits
for hospital services as a private patient because of the terms of the RHCAs.
Under these circumstances, if they chose to purchase a PHI complying health
insurance policy from a registered health insurer, they would not be able to
benefit from the full coverage of the policy.  
  
Heath insurance policies for visitors to Australia are different to policies
for Australian residents who are eligible for full Medicare. Policies for
visitors are designed to provide basic to top health insurance coverage, but
cap the amount of pharmaceutical cover.  
  
Because Australian health insurance is underwritten in part by the Medicare
system, health insurance for overseas visitors, who are not eligible for
Medicare, needs to meet the requirements of the visitor and, in many cases,
meet the requirement of visa conditions.  
  
Under current Government policy, 410 visa holders from countries with which
Australia has a RHCA, who applied for their visa before 1 December 1998, may
choose to access health cover under the relevant RHCA or they may choose to
make their own health insurance arrangements and seek an exemption from paying
the Medicare levy.  
Top of page  
Visa holders choosing the first option are known as ‘established applicants’
under clause 410.11 (now repealed) of the Migration Regulations 1994. An order
under subsection 6(1) of the HIA makes these persons ‘eligible persons’ for
the purposes of Medicare. Subsection 6(1) of the HIA provides the Minister for
Health with discretionary power to make ineligible people eligible for
Medicare.  
  
The [Private Health Insurance Ombudsman
website](http://www.privatehealth.gov.au) advises visitors to Australia who
hold a temporary visa to consider taking out overseas visitor health cover
(OVHC). OVHC is not regulated by the government under the PHI Act, and can be
offered by health insurers and by general insurers.  
  
OVHC is a general description that is given to any health insurance cover that
is offered to someone from overseas who is not eligible for Medicare. OVHC can
be offered by an Australian insurer (who is not necessarily an Australian
private health insurer) or an insurer based overseas. It is a general
insurance product and insurers are free to change their benefit outlays as
they see fit, whenever they see fit. Additionally, benefit outlays change
depending on the product purchased and there are many products available
worldwide. For example, travel insurance is sufficient for certain visa
holders.  
  
OVHC offered by general insurers is ‘risk-rated’ and the premium payable by a
potential policy holder is based on various factors particular to that
individual, such as the risk of a claim occurring, the value of any such
claims, and the older the person the higher the premiums.  
  
Where an OVHC is offered by a health insurer registered under the PHI Act, the
policy is defined as ‘health-related business’ under the PHI Act and the
health insurer can offer OVHC from their health benefits fund and can risk-
rate OVHC policies. Health insurers risk-rate OVHC on the basis of
availability, that is some health insurers refuse entry into their product on
the basis of risk. However, once entry has been granted by a health insurer,
health insurers offer OVHC at the same price for each specific OVHC policy
they offer, although these can change at any time.  
The following table summarises the type of OVHC products offered by Australian
funds and the costs for ‘Basic’ and ‘Top’ cover in 2011:
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

Basic (per year) – single person

|

Top (per year) – single person  
  
---|---|---  
Medibank Private| $1267 -only for a few visas incl 457, all services covered
by Medicare, medical| $2499 – 70Visitors cover - all services covered by
Medicare, private and public hosp ($4247 85Visitors cover)  
Australian Unity| $1015 Budget - private hosp, day surgery, ICU| $1850 – Visa
457 comprehensive cover -private & public hosp; ICU; ambulance; psych)  
HBF| $1274 – Standard O/S Visitors Cover -shared accom, hospital + pharmacy, |
$2899 – Comprehensive O/S Visitors Cover - all hospital procedures incl drs,
ambulance, psych care  
HBA (BUPA)| $1022- Classic - hospital, medical, ambulance, no excess| $2738 –
Platinum - hospital, medical, ambulance, repatriation, no excess, choice of
dr, heaps of extras  
Average| $1144 per annum| $2496 per annum  
Australian private health insurers that offer OVHC cap the amount claimable
for pharmaceuticals. For example, some insurers impose benefit limits of
between $500 to $600 per calendar year. It is noted that benefit caps and
conditions vary between insurers and products. For example, some insurers
offer products with no limit on in-hospital prescriptions.  
  
In the 2011-12 financial year, most Australians with private health insurance
received a 30 per cent rebate, non-means-tested, from the Australian
Government to help cover the cost of their premiums.  
  
However, from 1 July 2012 the private health insurance rebate is income
tested. The rebate is payable under chapter 2 of the PHI Act, and is payable
in relation to ‘complying health insurance policies’, including policies held
by persons from RHCA countries with access to Medicare benefits. A CHIP must
be a policy that meets the conditions outlined in the PHI Act, and
consequently persons who take out non-complying health insurance policies,
such as OVHC policies, are not eligible for the rebate.  
  
While PHI and OVHC policies are structured to cater for two different client
groups, both PHI and OVHC offer health insurance policies that differ only in
a few of the benefit areas. Like PHI products for Medicare eligible Australian
residents, policy premiums for OVHC policies vary considerably. It is
difficult to compare the overall exposure to out of pocket medical expenses
for 410 visa holders who hold OVHC insurance to Australian residents (who may
or may not purchase private health insurance) because of the variability in
coverage and cost of health insurance; the impact of Medicare, the Medicare
levy and the 30 per cent government rebate and the impact of Medicare and PBS
safety nets. Taking all of this into account there is no compelling evidence
that Medicare ineligible 410 visa holders who hold OVHC insurance are exposed
to substantially higher out of pocket expenses for health care than Medicare
eligible Australian residents.  
  

### Trends in 410 visa holder numbers

Excluding visa applications from new partners of existing 410 visa holders and
former 410 visa holders who have not held another substantive visa since their
last 410 visa was granted, no new applications for a 410 visa have been
granted since the visa subclass was closed to new applicants on 1 July 2005.
At the same time as the closure of the 410 visa subclass, a new subclass, the
Investor Retirement Visa (Subclass 405), was introduced for people aged 55
years or older.  
The numbers at 30 June 2011 of onshore (in Australia) and offshore (outside
Australia) 410 and 405 visa holders, together with the number of people
actually onshore were as follows:  ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

410 visa holders

|

405 visa holders  
  
---|---|---  
Pre-1 December 1998 applicants (422 persons were from a RHCA country and
eligible for Medicare)|

9301

| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)  
Post-1 December 1998 (NOT eligible for Medicare)|

5,5971

| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)  
Since 1 July 2005 ( NOT eligible for Medicare) | ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|

4081  
  
Total|

6,52711

|

4081  
  
Number of people onshore as at 30 June 2011 |

4,0142

|

2402  
  
1DIAC supplied data in September 2011 2DIAC stock data  
  
As at 30 June 2011 there were 422 ‘pre-1 December 1998’ 410 visa holders from
RHCA countries eligible for Medicare. Approximately 250 of these—59% of the
total—have elected to receive Medicare since February 1999.  
  
Numbers of 410 and 405 visa holders by RHCA/non-RHCA country as at 30 June
2011 were:  

#### RHCA Countries

410 and 405 holders as at 30 June 2011| Non-RHCA| Belgium| Finland| Ireland|
Italy| Ireland| Norway| Sweden| UK| Slovenia| Total RHCA| Total  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Pre-1/12/98 410 holders| 508| 2| 0| 1| 7| 34| 2| 6| 370| 0| 422| 930  
Post-1/12/98 410 holders| 1,874| 9| 2| 54| 14| 100| 7| 9| 3,526| 2| 3,723|
5,597  
Total 410 holders| 2,382| 11| 2| 55| 21| 134| 9| 15| 3,896| 2| 4,145| 6,527  
Total 405 holders| 175| 1| 0| 4| 5| 9| 0| 0| 214| 0| 233| 408  
Some general trends in the age distribution of 410 and 405 visa holders were:

  * Pre-1 December 1998 410 visa holders: the majority of these are in their 70s and 80s. 410 visa holders from RHCA countries who are eligible for Medicare tend to be older than their counterparts from non-RHCA countries who are not eligible for Medicare. 
  * Post-1 December 1998 410 visa holders: while there are twice as many 410 visa holders from RHCA countries than from non-RHCA countries, there are slightly more holders from RHCA countries around 64 to 65 years of age. 
  * 405 visa holders: there are about 25% more 405 visa holders from RHCA countries than from non-RHCA countries; the 405 holders from non-RHCA countries seem to have younger partners (i.e. well below 55 years of age) and an even spread of numbers through the 60s, with the 405 cohort from RHCA countries tending to have include people at age 60 and 65.

The following groups of 410 visa holders from RHCA and non-RHCA countries have
spent more than half their time in Australia as at 30 June 2011:

  * 86.3%1of those who have held a 410 visa for up to 4 years2
  * 60.8%4of those who have held a 410 visa for between 5 and 10 years4; 
  * 73.8%5of those who have held a 410 visa for between 11 and 15 years; 
  * 84.4%6of those who have held a 410 visa for between 16 and 20 years.

The following graph shows the patterns of length of visits to Australia:  
![Graph of 'Length of visit to Australia by length of time 410 Visa held as at
30/06/11. Title at the top of image, key under title. Graph shows number of
people and length of visits to
Australia](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/650f3eec0dfb990fca25692100069854/ef1f5a44b5c759c4ca257bf0001acc7d/WebPageBody/0.CBAE?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=gif)  
Data is limited for the 405visa holders, however there is a trend that the
longer the visa is held, the more time is spent in Australia, as the chart
below shows.  
The following graph shows that 405 visa holders who have held their visas for
4 years as at 30 June 2011, have spent more than 2 years in Australia.  
![Graph 4: 405 Holders time spent in Australia as at 30/06/11. Title at top of
graph. Key below title. Graph shows number of 405 holders and their time in
Australia](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/650f3eec0dfb990fca25692100069854/ef1f5a44b5c759c4ca257bf0001acc7d/WebPageBody/0.E662?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=gif)  
The number of 410 visa holders decreased by 30.2% between 30 June 2007 and 30
June 2011. There is very little difference in decline between pre-1 December
1998 and post-1 December 1998 410 visa holders. It is likely that the global
financial crisis affected, and continues to affect, the number of retirees
leaving Australia, through factors such as:

  * reduced income—incomes from overseas being adversely impacted by strong Australian dollar; 
  * increased cost of health care—the rapidly increasing cost of health insurance and health care being a concern for the longer term; and 
  * lucrative house prices overseas—the comparative decrease in house prices overseas enabling people to buy back into markets that were previously out of reach.

Of the total of 410 visa holders from RHCA countries as at 30 June 2011, the
UK has 94.0% (94.3% as at 30 June 2007), and has 59.7% of all 410 visa holders
(59.2% as 30 June 2007).  
  
172 people in total  
2includes 102 new visas granted between 1 July 2007 and 30 June 2011  
35064 people in total  
4includes 1053 new visas for applicants who applied before 1 July 2005 and
were granted between 1 July 2005 and until 30 June 2007  
51036 people in total  
6320 people in total  
Top of page  
The breakup of 410 holders by RHCA and non-RHCA country is as follows:  

#### RHCA

405 Visa Holders| Not RHCA| Belgium| Finland| Ireland| Italy| Malta|
Netherlands Antilles| Netherlands| Norway| Sweden| United Kingdom|
Yugoslavia/Slovenia| Sub Total| Grand Total| rate of decline each year  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
2007| 3480| 19| 2| 67| 35| 1| 5| 169| 13| 22| 5532| 2| 5867| 9347|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)  
2008| 3207| 17| 2| 64| 32| 1| 3| 166| 12| 22| 5047| 2| 5368| 8575| 8.3%  
2009| 2922| 14| 2| 57| 24| 0| 1| 159| 10| 21| 4621| 3| 4912| 7834| 8.6%  
2010| 2774| 13| 2| 54| 22| 0| 0| 148| 9| 20| 4171| 2| 4441| 7215| 7.9%  
2011| 2382| 11| 2| 55| 21| 0| 0| 134| 9| 15| 3896| 2| 4145| 6527| 9.5%  
rate of decline since 2007| 31.6%| 42.1%| 0.0%| 17.9%| 40.0%| 100.0%| 100.0%|
20.7%| 30.8%| 31.8%| 29.6%| 0.0%| 29.4%| 30.2%| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)  
The number of 405 visa holders is comparatively small (408 in total as at 30
June 2011), and show that the UK’s percentage of total 405 visa holders is
slowing decreasing as the overall 405 numbers increase and visa applications
from other RHCA and non-RHCA countries are granted:  

#### RHCA

405 Visa Holders| Not RHCA| Belgium| Finland| Ireland| Italy| Malta|
Netherlands Antilles| Netherlands| Norway| Sweden| United Kingdom|
Yugoslavia/Slovenia| Sub Total| Grand Total| rate of increase each year  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
2007| 23| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 2|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 49|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 51| 74| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)  
2008| 64| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 4| 2|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 4| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 144| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 154| 218| 194.6%  
2009| 94| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 6| 2|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 4| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 174| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 186| 280| 28.4%  
2010| 136| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 6| 2|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 7| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 196| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 211| 347| 23.9%  
2011| 175| 1| 0| 4| 5| 0| 0| 9| 0| 0| 214| 0| 233| 408| 17.6%  
rate of increase since 2007| 660.9%| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 100.0%| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 125.0%|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 336.7%|
![](/icons/ecblank.gif)| 356.9%| 451.4%| ![](/icons/ecblank.gif)  
  
### Comment

This Review was undertaken because the policy position not to allow Medicare
access to 410 visa holders adopted by the Department since 1998 has been
challenged by both the BERIA lobby group on behalf of their membership, and by
Mr Stuart Moles who represents members of BERIA in Western Australia. They
submit that 410 visa holders whose country of origin is the UK should be
eligible to access Medicare based on the RHCA between Australia and the UK. In
addition they submit that private health insurance premiums are unaffordable
and that there are coverage gaps particularly in relation to the cost of
pharmaceuticals.  
  
Retirement Visa (Subclass 410) holders are temporary long-term visa holders
who are able to remain indefinitely in Australia subject to meeting the
requirements of renewal of their visas. The visa subclass has been closed
since 1 July 2005, and as at 30 June 2011 there were 6,527 visa holders, with
4,145 visa holders from RHCA countries.  
  
Unlike other temporary visa holders, due to their skill levels, age and family
composition, under current migration legislation and policy settings, a
significant proportion of 410 visa holders have no prospect of obtaining
permanent residence, despite being able to live here indefinitely. For all
intents and purposes, whilst many of these visa holders have become part of
the Australian community, they are not able to receive some of the benefits of
being a permanent resident of Australia, by virtue of the conditions applied
to their visa.  
  
This group of visa holders is an ageing cohort and as they age, inevitably
their use of health services increases. Understandably access to affordable
health care becomes a prominent concern. Health problems also mean that some
may not be well enough to return to their home country and re-establish their
lives and social networks. This Review has found that for many the cost of
health insurance is problematic and coverage may be less than is provided
under Medicare. However, private health insurance premiums for those who are
Medicare eligible are also high and many Australians also have exposure to
increasing out of pocket expenses for health services.  
  
This Review has demonstrated that since inception of the 410 visa, eligibility
for Medicare for this group has evolved over time. Those policy and
legislative settings reflect a range of immigration, health and social policy
considerations that include, but are broader than, the concerns of 410 visa
holders.  
  
It is clear that at least since 1998, 410 visa holders have been consistently
advised that they will not be eligible for Medicare under an RHCA as they are
‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia. They have adopted Australian abode
voluntarily and for settled purposes as part of the regular order of their
life. Along with other temporary visa holders they have been consistently
advised to purchase adequate private health insurance.  
  
The Department believes that its post 1998 policy position has been
reasonable, transparent and fair. Nevertheless, with DHS’ assistance, it plans
to modify administrative processes to ensure that all 410 and 405 visa holders
have an opportunity to engage in an assessment process that will enable
consideration of the “ ordinary resident” test on an individual basis. The new
process is outlined below.  
  
A draft of this Review was provided to BERIA and Mr Moles in November 2011 and
comments received by the two groups have been considered in finalising this
report. Subsequently, Mr Stuart Moles made a complaint to the Commonwealth
Ombudsman under s.12 of the Ombudsman Act 1976 about the post 1998 policy. On
14 May 2012 the Ombudsman concluded his investigation making no criticism of
the Department.  
  

### Proposed changes to policy regarding Medicare access for subclass 410 and
405 visa holders

The Department notes that the issues raised by concerned Subclass 410 visa
holders are principally around the conditions of the visa being a temporary
visa carrying none of the entitlements of permanent residency. Visa
conditions, which are a matter for the Department of Immigration and
Citizenship to address, should be raised with that portfolio. This
Department’s involvement arises from its responsibility for policy in relation
to RHCAs and Medicare eligibility more broadly.  
  
However, taking into account the full range of issues addressed by this
Review, the Department proposes to implement policy and administrative changes
which, by allowing the assessment of the residency status of individual 410
and 405 visa holders, will clarify their Medicare eligibility.  
  
The Department believes that the default position that holders of subclass 410
and 405 visas will be ‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia ought to remain. The
Department has, however, worked with Department of Human Services
(DHS)-Medicare to devise an administrative process which will determine, in as
objective a way as possible, and based upon individual circumstances, those
persons holding 410 and 405 visas who can reasonably be said to be not
ordinarily resident in Australia and therefore entitled to access to the
relevant RHCA. That system will, necessarily, rely on those persons asserting
that claim before it can be determined.  
  
The range of factors that are relevant to assessing whether a person is, or is
not, ordinarily resident in Australia, will include whether a person holds
assets such as a house in Australia or elsewhere; the ties the person has
formed within Australia and the ties that the person maintains elsewhere; and
time spent in Australia.  
  
The following (draft) assessment guide has been developed which will enable UK
holders of 410 and 405 visas to self-determine whether they are eligible for
RHCA cover. Similar guides will be developed for 410 and 405 visa holders from
other RHCA countries.  
  
Given the range of factors that are relevant to the assessment of a person’s
residency status, design of an administratively efficient and fair process
that nevertheless has sufficient rigor has been challenging. Determining
whether an individual is ‘ordinarily resident’ involves an assessment of a
number of qualitative factors and the interplay of those factors.  
  
It is anticipated that review processes will also be made available should the
410 visa and 405 visa holder dispute the outcome of the assessment process.
410 and 405 visa holders from RHCA countries will be advised of the change and
given opportunity to be assessed for RHCA eligibility if they believe that
their circumstances mean that they are eligible for RHCA health cover.  
  
As an individual’s circumstances may change over time eligibility may need to
be reviewed periodically. This new policy will be implemented as soon as is
administratively possible, given the complexities involved. The Department
anticipates that for most 410 and 405 visa holders from RHCA countries the
status quo will continue.  
  
Alternatively, for those 410 (and 405) visa holders who have returned to their
home country and intend to visit Australia only for holidays, the option
remains for them to relinquish their existing 410 or 405 visa and apply for a
tourist visa which would allow them access to Medicare under relevant RHCA
provisions.  
  

## Medicare Eligibility for holders of Retirement Visas (Subclasses 405 and
410) under the Reciprocal Health Care Agreement between Australia and the
United Kingdom

### Assessment Guide

Under the reciprocal health care agreement (RHCA) between Australia and the
United Kingdom (UK), eligible persons in Australia are entitled to necessary
medical treatment including free treatment as a public patient in a public
hospital, Medicare benefits for out-of-hospital services and subsidised drugs
through the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.  
  
This guide is intended to assist subclass 405 and 410 retirement visa holders
to determine whether the RHCA applies to them by setting out the matters that
the Department of Human Services (DHS) – Medicare will take into account in
assessing eligibility. The RHCA applies to persons who are BOTH:  
(i) a resident of the United Kingdom; AND  
(ii) temporarily in Australia—that is, lawfully present but not ordinarily
resident in Australia.  
  

### Criterion 1: Proof of residence in the UK

#### Question 1: Can you provide one or more of the following documents:

  
1\. Current UK passport, including a passport issued in the Isle of Man,
Jersey or Guernsey  
2\. National Health Service Medical Card (Great Britain and the Isle of Man)  
3\. Health Service Medical Card (Northern Ireland)  
4\. Certificate issued by the Social Security Committee of the States of
Jersey  
5\. Proof of insurance issued by the Guernsey States Insurance Authority or
other proof of residence in the Bailiwick of Guernsey  
6\. European Health Insurance Card bearing the initials ‘UK’  
If your answer to Question 1 is ‘yes’, you have adequate evidence of your
residence in the UK. Go to Criterion 2.  
If your answer to Question 1 is ‘no’, you have not established your residence
in the UK and are not eligible under the RHCA.  
  

### Criterion 2: Determining whether you are ‘ordinarily resident’ in
Australia’

#### Question 2: Have you lived in Australia for more than six months out of
the past 12 months, either continuously or intermittently?

(Note: Generally, a person is ‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia if he or she
regularly or customarily lives in Australia. If you are ordinarily resident in
Australia you will not be eligible under the RHCA.)  
If your answer to Question 2 is ‘yes’, you are considered ‘ordinarily
resident’ in Australia and are not eligible under the RHCA.  
If your answer to Question 2 is ‘no’, and you arrived in Australia for the
first time within the previous 12 months, you are not considered ordinarily
resident in Australia and are eligible under the RHCA.  
If your answer to Question 2 is ‘no’, but you arrived in Australia for the
first time more than 12 months ago and have spent time in Australia for
varying periods since your first arrival, go to Criterion 3.  
You may still be considered ‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia, depending on
your responses to the questions under Criterion 3. The cumulative weight of
your responses will indicate the extent to which you live in Australia for
settled purposes as part of the regular order of your life and whether you are
considered ‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia.  
  

### Criterion 3: Established lifestyle

Please complete the following questions:  
1\. Do you intend to spend more than six months out of the next 12 months in
Australia?  
2\. Have your visits to Australia formed a pattern of regular and significant
visits over a number of years, or is such a pattern expected to emerge?  
3\. Do you own property in Australia?  
4\. Do you lease or rent property in Australia?  
5\. Do you have a spouse, parent/s or child/ren residing in Australia?  
6\. Are you employed in Australia?  
7\. Do you hold a bank account in Australia?  
8\. Do you have a motor vehicle registered in your name in Australia?  
9\. Have you formed any ties to the community in Australia, such as membership
of a club or other organised group?  
If you responded ‘yes’ to three (3) or more of these questions, you are
considered ‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia and are not eligible under the
RHCA.  
If you responded ‘yes’ to less than 3 of these questions, you are not
considered ‘ordinarily resident’ in Australia and are eligible under the RHCA.  
  

### Further assessment

If you did not meet the eligibility test under Criterion 2 or Criterion 3 but
you consider that there are other significant factors that establish your
eligibility under the RHCA, please take this completed form to your nearest
Medicare Office along with any supporting evidence. You may be asked to sign a
Statutory Declaration affirming your residency status.  
  
Top of page

### In this section

  * [ __Medical Rural Bonded Scholarship Scheme 2014](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-st-mrb)
  * [ __National Rural Health Students' Network](http://nrhsn.org.au)
  * [ __Nursing and Allied Health Scholarship and Support Scheme (NAHSSS)](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-nahsss)
  * [ __Alcohol](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-drugs-alcohol-index.htm)
  * [ __Children of Parents with a Mental Illness](http://www.copmi.net.au)
  * [ __headspace (National Youth Mental Health Foundation)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)
  * [ __KidsMatter](http://www.kidsmatter.edu.au/)
  * [ __Living is for everyone (LiFE)](http://www.livingisforeveryone.com.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health Council of Australia](http://www.mhca.org.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health in Multicultural Australia](http://www.mhima.org.au/)
  * [ __Mental Health Nurse Incentive Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-mhnip)
  * [ __Mental Health Professionals Network](http://www.mhpn.org.au/ )
  * [ __Mindmatters](http://www.mindmatters.edu.au/default.asp)
  * [ __National Youth Mental Health Foundation (headspace)](http://www.headspace.org.au/)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-all)
  * [ __ResponseAbility Education](http://www.responseability.org/site/index.cfm?display=21924)
  * [ __Ban on the use of animal test data for cosmetics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ban-cosmetic-testing-animals)
  * [ __Health Policy Research and Data Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health_Policy_Research_and_Data_Program)
  * [ __Overview](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-nurse)
  * [ __Packer Policy Fellowship Program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/packer-policy-fellows)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Growth Hormone Program](http://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/section100-gh)
  * [ __Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme Collection of Under Co-payment Data](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pbs-under-copayment-data)
  * [ __Programs & Initiatives - Results](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-results)
  *  **[ __Review of the eligibility of retirement visa holders for Medicare under relevant reciprocal health care agreements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/retirement-visa-holders)**
  * [ __The Australian-American Health Policy Fellowship](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Australian-American-Health-Policy-Fellowship)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fretirement-
visa-holders "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
  * [Biosimilar Awareness Initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/biosimilar-awareness-initiative)
  * [Casemix](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-casemix-data-collections-about-HCP)
  * [Folate](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-folate-index.htm)
  * [Living Organ Donation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Leave-for-living-organ-donors)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **fifth** and **last** digits of 469575

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

