Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1) /
  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro) /
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care) /

# MBS Health Assessments Items 701, 703, 705, 707 and 715

Fact Sheet

 __Page last updated: 23 February 2016

If you have any queries related to these items please contact [_the MBD
webmaster_](mailto:mbd.web@health.gov.au).  
[MBS Health Assessments Items 701, 703, 705, 707 and 715 Fact Sheet (Word 479
KB)](169E5ECAFE157951CA257BF0001D242D/$File/Hlth%20Ass%20items%20\(1\).docx)  
[MBS Health Assessments Items 701, 703, 705, 707 and 715 Fact Sheet (PDF 65
KB)](169E5ECAFE157951CA257BF0001D242D/$File/Hlth%20Ass%20items%20\(1\).pdf)  
  
There are four time-based MBS health assessment items: **701 (brief), 703
(standard), 705 (long)** and **707 (prolonged)**. The following categories of
health assessments may be undertaken by a medical practitioner (other than a
specialist or consultant physician) under these items:

  * a health assessment for people aged 45-49 years who are at risk of developing chronic disease 
  * a type 2 diabetes risk evaluation for people aged 40-49 years with a high risk of developing type 2 diabetes as determined by the Australian Type 2 Diabetes Risk Assessment Tool 
  * a health assessment for people aged 75 years and older 
  * a comprehensive medical assessment for permanent residents of residential aged care facilities 
  * a health assessment for people with an intellectual disability 
  * a health assessment for refugees and other humanitarian entrants

The decision to use any one of these four MBS health assessment items to carry
out a health assessment will depend on the practitioner’s clinical judgement
based on the complexity of the presentation and the type of health assessment
used.  

### Health Assessment for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People – MBS
Item 715

Medical practitioners providing a health assessment for Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people should use MBS Item 715. This MBS health assessment
item has no designated time or complexity requirements. The length of the
health assessment will be at the medical practitioner’s discretion. MBS Item
715 should be used for health assessments for the following age groups:

  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children who are less than 15 years old 
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adults who are aged 15 years and over but under the age of 55 years 
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander older people who are aged 55 years and over.

Top of Page  
Details on the MBS health assessment items are provided below:  
**Item 701 Brief** – Attendance by a medical practitioner to undertake a short
health assessment, lasting not more than 30 minutes  
**Item 703 Standard** – Attendance by a medical practitioner to undertake a
medium health assessment, lasting more than 30 minutes but less than 45
minutes  
**Item 705 Long** – Attendance by a medical practitioner to undertake a long
health assessment, lasting at least 45 minutes but less than 60 minutes  
**Item 707 Prolonged** – Attendance by a medical practitioner to undertake an
extended health assessment, lasting at least 60 minutes  
**Item 715** Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples health assessments
for children, adults and older people  

### Components of a health assessment

Health assessments are generally made up of the following elements:

  * information collection, including taking a patient history and undertaking or arranging examinations and 
  * investigations as required; 
  * making an overall assessment of the patient; 
  * recommending appropriate interventions; 
  * providing advice and information to the patient; 
  * keeping a record of the health assessment, and offering the patient a written report about the health assessment, with recommendations about matters covered by the health assessment; and 
  * offering the patient’s carer (if any, and if the medical practitioner considers it appropriate and the patient agrees) a copy of the report or extracts of the report relevant to the carer.

### Patient consent

The patient or their parent/guardian must be given an explanation of the
health assessment process and its likely benefits, and must be asked by the
medical practitioner, practice nurse or Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
health practitioner whether they consent to the health assessment being
performed. Consent must be noted on the patient record.  

### ‘Usual Doctor’ and other health professionals

An MBS health assessment item may only be claimed by a medical practitioner,
including a general practitioner but not including a specialist or consultant
physician. A health assessment should generally be undertaken by the patient’s
‘usual doctor’, that is, the medical practitioner (or medical practitioner in
the same practice) who has provided the majority of services to the patient in
the past 12 months, and/or is likely to provide the majority of services in
the following 12 months. Should a medical practitioner other than the
patient’s ‘usual doctor’ or practice nurse undertake the health assessment, a
copy of the health assessment record should be forwarded to the patient’s
‘usual doctor’ or practice, subject to the agreement of the patient or their
parent/guardian.  
Top of Page  
The medical practitioner is expected to take a primary role in the following
activities when providing a health assessment:

  * reviewing and analysing the information collected; 
  * making an overall assessment of the patient; 
  * undertaking and arranging investigations; 
  * making referrals and identifying appropriate follow-up; and 
  * providing advice to the patient.

Practice nurses and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health practitioners
may assist medical practitioners in performing a health assessment, in
accordance with accepted medical practice and under the supervision of the
medical practitioner. This may include activities associated with:

  * information collection; and 
  * providing patients with information about recommended interventions at the direction of the medical practitioner.

All other components of the health assessment must include a personal
attendance by a doctor.  

### Restrictions on providing a MBS health assessment item

A health assessment should not take the form of a health screening service.  
  
The MBS health assessment items are not available to in-patients of a hospital
or care recipients in a residential aged care facility. The exception to this
is a comprehensive medical assessment, which is available to a care recipient
in a residential aged care facility.  
  
Any ongoing conditions that are identified in the course of a health
assessment should be managed using existing MBS general practice attendance
items or the MBS follow-up items provided by practice nurses, Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander health practitioners or allied health professionals.  
Top of Page  
Medical practitioners should not conduct a separate consultation in
conjunction with a MBS health assessment item unless it is clinically
necessary (ie. the patient has an acute problem that needs to be managed
separately from the assessment). The only exceptions are:

  * the comprehensive medical assessment, where, if this health assessment is undertaken during the course of a consultation for another purpose, the health assessment item and the relevant item for the other consultation may both be claimed.

MBS Items 701, 703, 705, 707 and 715 do not apply for services that are
provided by any other Commonwealth or State funded services. However, where an
exemption under subsection 19(2) of the Health Insurance Act 1973 has been
granted to an Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Service or
State/Territory Government health clinic, MBS Items 701, 703, 705, 707 and
715.  
  
All requirements of the MBS items must be met.  
Top of Page  
Where the patient is a Commonwealth concession cardholder or a child under 16
years of age and the service is bulk billed, the GP can also claim a bulk
billing incentive payment (MBS Items 10990 and 10991).  

### Guidelines and Resources

For more detailed information about MBS item descriptors and explanatory notes
visit the Department of Health and Ageing website at [MBS
Online](http://www.health.gov.au/mbsonline).  
  
For more general information about the MBS items visit the [Department of
Health website](http://www.health.gov.au/) or phone the Department of Human
Services (Medicare) provider enquiry line on 132 150.

  * [SNAP (Smoking, Nutrition, Alcohol and Physical activity) - A population health guide to behavioural risk factors in general practice](http://www.racgp.org.au/your-practice/guidelines/snap/)
  * [Guidelines for Preventive Activities in General Practice](http://www.racgp.org.au/redbook)

### Question and Answers

 **Can a practice nurse or Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health
practitioners assist with a health assessment?**  
Yes. A practice nurse or Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health
practitioner can assist the medical practitioner by undertaking the
information collection stage of a health assessment and by providing patients
with information about recommended interventions (at the direction of the
medical practitioner).  
  
**Who can receive a health assessment?**  
The four time-based health assessment items consist of brief, standard, long
and prolonged consultations. Medical practitioners may select one of the MBS
health assessment items to provide a health assessment service to a member of
the target groups that are eligible for a health assessment. The health
assessment requirements for each target group can be found in the Explanatory
Notes on the Department of Health’s website at [MBS
Online](http://www.health.gov.au/mbsonline). The Fact Sheets for each target
group are available at [the MHA
webpage](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mha.htm)
.  
Top of Page  
**Are proformas available for the health assessments?**  
Yes. Proformas are available to assist you in completing the health
assessments. These can be found on the Department of Health’s website at [the
MHA
webpage](http://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mha.htm)  
  
**When should I use MBS Item 715?**  
The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples health assessment item is
specifically intended to provide Indigenous people with a culturally sensitive
health assessment service. The health assessment covers a wide range of
conditions and factors that may affect the health of Indigenous people, across
the full span of life. MBS Item 715 is particularly recommended for Indigenous
children of pre-school age, as it provides a comprehensive survey of a child’s
health.  
Top of Page

### In this section

  * [ __Autism — Helping Children with Autism program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/autism-children)
  * [ __Disability — Better Start for Children with Disability initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/children_disability)
  * [ __Pregnancy support counselling](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pcd-pregnancy-support.htm)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fmbsprimarycare_mbsitem_general_factsheet
"Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
  * [Claiming from Medicare](http://www.humanservices.gov.au/customer/dhs/medicare)
  * [Diagnostic imaging under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/diagnosticimaging-aboutus.htm)
  * [e-Health records Medicare data](http://www.ehealth.gov.au/internet/ehealth/publishing.nsf/content/home)
  * [Medicare safety net arrangements 1973 to 2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/EMSN_Landing_Page)
  * [Legislation](http://www.legislation.gov.au/)
  * [MBS Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Services Advisory Committee](http://www.msac.gov.au/)
  * [Medical Treatment Overseas program](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strategicpolicyMTO.htm)
  * [Pathology under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pathology-aboutus-index.htm)
  * [Primary care (GP, nursing, allied health)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbs-primary-care)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare_ATSI_mbsha_resource_kit)
  * [Radiation therapy under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-roi-aboutus.htm)
  * [Statistics under Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicare+Statistics-1)
  * [Specialist video consultations under Medicare](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsonline-telehealth-landing.htm)
  * [Your Questions Answered](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medicare-your-questions-answered)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **second** , **fifth** and **last** digits of 189432

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

