Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fpublications-
Communicable%20diseases "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1) /
  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) /

# Publications - Communicable diseases

Communicable diseases related publications in the Health website.

 __Page last updated: 29 May 2023 (this page is generated automatically and
reflects updates to other content within the website)

## By Title

View publications by title beginning with...

  * [A](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-A "View publications with titles beginning with A")
  * [B](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-B "View publications with titles beginning with B")
  * [C](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-C "View publications with titles beginning with C")
  * [D](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-D "View publications with titles beginning with D")
  * [E](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-E "View publications with titles beginning with E")
  * [F](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-F "View publications with titles beginning with F")
  * [G](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-G "View publications with titles beginning with G")
  * [H](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-H "View publications with titles beginning with H")
  * [I](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-I "View publications with titles beginning with I")
  * [J](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-J "View publications with titles beginning with J")
  * [K](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-K "View publications with titles beginning with K")
  * [L](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-L "View publications with titles beginning with L")
  * [M](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-M "View publications with titles beginning with M")
  * [N](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-N "View publications with titles beginning with N")
  * [O](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-O "View publications with titles beginning with O")
  * [P](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-P "View publications with titles beginning with P")
  * [Q](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Q "View publications with titles beginning with Q")
  * [R](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-R "View publications with titles beginning with R")
  * [S](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-S "View publications with titles beginning with S")
  * [T](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-T "View publications with titles beginning with T")
  * [U](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-U "View publications with titles beginning with U")
  * [V](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-V "View publications with titles beginning with V")
  * [W](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-W "View publications with titles beginning with W")
  * [X](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-X "View publications with titles beginning with X")
  * [Y](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Y "View publications with titles beginning with Y")
  * [Z](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Z "View publications with titles beginning with Z")
  * [0 - 9](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-0-9 "View publications with titles beginning with numerals")

## By Health Topic

View publications by health topic

select a topic...Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander HealthAlcoholAnnual
reportsAntibiotic resistanceArthritisAsthmaAutismBlood and Blood
productsBreastfeedingBudgetCancerCardiovascular diseasesCarersCasemixChild
healthChronic diseaseClinical TrialsCommunicable diseasesCouncilsDental
healthDiabetesDiagnostic imagingDiseases and conditionsDrugsDrugs and
substance abusee-HealthEmergency managementEnvironmental healthExerciseEye
healthFood standardsFraudGeneral practiceGP Super ClinicsGrantsHealth care
systemsHealth insuranceHealth personnelHealth promotionHealth TechnologyHealth
workforceHearingHepatitis BHepatitis CHIVHIV/AIDSHormonesHospitalsIllegal
drugsImmunisationInfant HealthInfluenzaInjury preventionLegislationMaternal
HealthMedical indemnityMedical Treatment OverseasMedicareMedicinal
cannabisMen's healthMental healthMidwivesNursingNutritionObesityOncologyOrgan
and tissue donationPalliative carePandemicPathologyPersonally controlled
electronic health recordsPharmaceutical benefitsPharmacyPhysical
activityPrescribed drugsPrimary health carePrivate Health
InsuranceProfessional indemnityPublic awarenessRadiationRegulation and Red
Tape ReductionResearch and developmentRural health servicesSexual HealthSpeech
pathologySportStatisticsSuicide preventionTobaccoWomen's healthYouth health

* * *

Alternatively [view all 628
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-all) or the
[most recently added
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) on
this website.

## Your selection has returned 67 publications:

Publication| Year| Status| Health topics  
---|---|---|---  
  
### [Communicable Diseases Intelligence - Call for
papers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-call-for-papers.htm
"Communicable Diseases Intelligence - Call for papers")

 _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_ (CDI) is a peer-reviewed scientific
journal published by the Office of Health Protection, Department of Health.
The journal aims to disseminate information on the epidemiology, surveillance,
prevention and control of communicable diseases of relevance to Australia.

| 2019| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)

  
  
### [Probable epidemic _Mycoplasma pneumoniae_ disease activity in
metropolitan Sydney, 2015: combining surveillance data to cross-validate
signal detection](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-b "Probable
epidemic <em>Mycoplasma pneumoniae</em> disease activity in metropolitan
Sydney, 2015: combining surveillance data to cross-validate signal detection")

 _Mycoplasma pneumoniae_ is a leading cause of encephalitis and pneumonia in
children. Active surveillance identified a cluster of children with suspected
encephalitis associated with _M.pneumoniae_ in NSW during July, 2015. An
investigation that cross validated encephalitis surveillance with ED pneumonia
surveillance and senitenal reference laboratory data revealed probable
epidemic _M.pneumoniae_ disease activity in Sydney during 2015.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Children with melioidosis in Far North Queensland are commonly
bacteraemic and have a high case fatality
rate](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-e "Children with
melioidosis in Far North Queensland are commonly bacteraemic and have a high
case fatality rate")

Paediatric melioidosis is uncommon in Northern Australia and localised skin
and soft tissue infections predominate. This study presents data from Far
North Queensland and shows that, in this population, children with melioidosis
are commonly bacteraemia and have a high case fatality rate.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Diagnostic testing in influenza and pertussis-related paediatric
intensive care unit admissions, Queensland, Australia,
1997-2013](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-l "Diagnostic testing
in influenza and pertussis-related paediatric intensive care unit admissions,
Queensland, Australia, 1997-2013")

Severe respiratory infections make up a large proportion of Australian
paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) admissions each year. Identification of
the causative pathogen is important and informs clinical management. We
investigated the use of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in the ICU-setting
using data collated by the Australian and New Zealand Paediatric Intensive
Care (ANZPIC) Registry from five ICUs in Queensland, Australia. We describe
diagnostic testing use among pertussis and influenza-related paediatric ICU
admissions between 01 January 1997 and 31 December 2013.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Position statement on interferon-γ release assays for the detection of
latent tuberculosis infection](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-c
"Position statement on interferon-γ release assays for the detection of latent
tuberculosis infection")

Interferon- _y_ release assays (IGRAs), such as the Quantiferon (QIFN) TB-Gold
Plus assay (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) and the _T-SPOT.TB_ test (Oxford
Immunotec Limited, Abingdon, United Kingdom), are marketed as a substitute for
the tuberculin skin test (TST) for the detection of latent tuberculosis
infection (LTBI). The relative merits of IGRAs and TST have been hotly debated
over the last decade. The specificity of IGRAs has been optimised by using
_Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ -specific antigens. However, IGRAs are functional
_in vitro_ T-cell-based assays that may lack reproducibility due to specimen
collection, transport, processing and kit manufacturing issues.

Longitudinal studies comparing the ability of IGRAs and TST to predict the
future development of active tuberculosis disease (TB) are the ultimate
arbiters on the respective utility of these assays. Three meta-analyses
addressing this comparison have now been published and clinical experience
with IGRAs is accumulating. The systematic reviews show that IGRAs and TST
have similar (but poor) ability to identify patients with LTBI at risk of
developing active TB disease. The improved specificity of IGRAs however may
reduce the number of patients requiring preventative therapy.

Based on these meta-analyses, The National Tuberculosis Advisory Committee
(NTAC) now recommends either TST or an IGRA for the investigation of LTBI in
most circumstances. Both tests may be used in patients where the risk of
progression to active TB disease is high and the disease sequelae potentially
severe (eg. LTBI testing in immunocompromised patients or those commencing
anti-tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF) therapy). Neither test should be used in
the investigation of active TB disease (though TST and/or IGRA may be used as
supplementary tests in paediatric cases). The choice of test for serial
testing in healthcare workers (HCWs) remains controversial. A preference
remains for TST in this circumstance because IGRAs have been bedevilled by
higher rates of reversions and conversions when used for serial testing. These
recommendations supersede all previous NTAC IGRA statements.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [The Australian Sentinel Practices Research Network, 1 January  to  31
March 2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-o "The Australian
Sentinel Practices Research Network, <span>1 January </span> to <span> 31
March 2017</span>")

The Australian Sentinel Practices Research Network was established in 1991 to
provide a rapid, national, monitoring scheme for infectious diseases that can
alert public health officials of epidemics before they arise. The network
consists of general practitioners, throughout all 8 states and territories in
Australia, who report presentations on a number of defined medical conditions
each week. This report presents data from the 1st quarter of 2017 (1 January
to 31 March) and includes the syndromic surveillance of influenza-like-
illness, gastroenteritis, chicken pox, and shingles, and the virological
surveillance of respiratory viruses including influenza A, influenza B, RSV
and rhinovirus.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Annual report of the National Influenza Surveillance Scheme,
2010](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-f "Annual report of the
National Influenza Surveillance Scheme, 2010")

The 2010 influenza season was moderate overall, with more laboratory-confirmed
cases than in earlier years, with the exception of 2009. This report brings
together a range of data sources under the National Influenza Surveillance
Scheme to describe influenza during 2010.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [OzFoodNet quarterly report, 1 July to 30 September
2015](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-p "OzFoodNet quarterly
report, 1 July to 30 September 2015")

The Australian Government Department of Health established the OzFoodNet
network in 2000 to collaborate nationally to investigate foodborne disease. In
each Australian state and territory, OzFoodNet epidemiologists investigate
outbreaks of enteric infection. In addition, OzFoodNet conducts studies on the
burden of illness and coordinates national investigations into outbreaks of
foodborne disease. This quarterly report documents investigations of outbreaks
of gastrointestinal illness and clusters of disease potentially related to
food, which commenced in Australia between 1 July and 30 September 2015.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [OzFoodNet quarterly report, 1 April to 30 June
2015](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-q "OzFoodNet quarterly
report, 1 April to 30 June 2015")

The Australian Government Department of Health established the OzFoodNet
network in 2000 to collaborate nationally to investigate foodborne disease. In
each Australian state and territory, OzFoodNet epidemiologists investigate
outbreaks of enteric infection. In addition, OzFoodNet conducts studies on the
burden of illness and coordinates national investigations into outbreaks of
foodborne disease. This quarterly report documents investigations of outbreaks
of gastrointestinal illness and clusters of disease potentially related to
food, which commenced in Australia between 1 April and 30 June 2015.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Australian Rotavirus Surveillance Program Annual Report,
2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-k "Australian Rotavirus
Surveillance Program Annual Report, 2016")

The Australian Rotavirus Surveillance Program has characterised the G- and P-
genotypes of rotavirus strains causing severe disease in Australian children
since 1997. This report describes the genotype distribution of rotavirus
strains causing severe gastroenteritis in Australia for the period 1 January
to 31 December 2016.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Australian Meningococcal Surveillance Programme, Annual Report
2016](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-i "Australian
Meningococcal Surveillance Programme, Annual Report 2016")

The reference laboratories of the Australian National Neisseria Network (NNN)
report data on the number of laboratory confirmed cases of invasive
meningococcal disease (IMD) using culture and by non-culture based techniques
for the Australian Meningococcal Surveillance Programme (AMSP). In 2016, there
were 243 laboratory-confirmed cases of invasive meningococcal disease (IMD)
analysed by the (NNN).

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the National Influenza Surveillance Scheme,
2009](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-j "Annual Report of the
National Influenza Surveillance Scheme, 2009")

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Invasive Pneumococcal Disease Surveillance, 1 January to 31 March
2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-g "Invasive Pneumococcal
Disease Surveillance,

1 January to 31 March 2017")

This quarterly report provides a summary of invasive pneumococcal disease
notifications in Australia during the first quarter of 2017.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Invasive Pneumococcal Disease Surveillance,1 April to 30 June
2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-h "Invasive Pneumococcal
Disease Surveillance,1 April to 30 June 2017")

This quarterly report provides a summary of invasive pneumococcal disease
notifications in Australia during the second quarter of 2017.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [An outbreak of _Salmonella_ Muenchen after consuming sea turtle, Northern
Territory, Australia, 2017.](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-a
"An outbreak of <em>Salmonella</em> Muenchen after consuming sea turtle,
Northern Territory, Australia, 2017.")

An outbreak of _Salmonella_ Muenchen gastroenteritis occurred in a remote
coastal Aboriginal community in the Northern Territory (NT) of Australia.
There were 22 people sick (attack rate 55%); 7 had laboratory confirmed _S_.
Muenchen infection; 2 required medical evacuation and admission to the
intensive care unit (ICU). We conducted a descriptive case series to
investigate the outbreak. All cases ate meat from a single green turtle (
_Chelonia mydas_ ). The animal’s pre-death stress, improper butchering,
insufficient cooking and the unsatisfactory storage of meat all likely
contributed to the outbreak. Turtle meat should be prepared safely, cooked
thoroughly and stored appropriately to avoid _Salmonella_ infection.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Influenza epidemiology in patients admitted to sentinel Australian
hospitals in 2016: the Influenza Complications Alert Network
(FluCAN)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-d "Influenza
epidemiology in patients admitted to sentinel Australian hospitals in 2016:
the Influenza Complications Alert Network \(FluCAN\)")

During the period 1 April to 30 October 2016 (the 2016 influenza season),
1,952 patients were admitted with confirmed influenza to one of 17 FluCAN
sentinel hospitals. Of these, 46% were elderly (≥65 years), 18% were children
(<16 years), 5% were Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, 3% were
pregnant and 76% had chronic co-morbidities.

| 2018| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System, 1 April to  30 June
2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-r "National Notifiable
Diseases Surveillance System, 1 April to <span> 30 June 2017</span>")

A summary of diseases currently being reported by each jurisdiction is
provided in Table 1. There were 75,935 notifications to the National
Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) between 1 April to 30 June
2017 (Table 2). The notification rate of diseases per 100,000 population for
each state or territory is presented in Table 3.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System, 1 July to 30 September
2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-s "National Notifiable
Diseases Surveillance System, 1 July to 30 September 2017")

A summary of diseases currently being reported by each jurisdiction is
provided in Table 1. There were 267,220 notifications to the National
Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) between 1 July to 30 September
2017 (Table 2). The notification rate of diseases per 100,000 population for
each state or territory is presented in Table 3.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System, 1 October to 31
December 2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4104-t "National
Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System, 1 October to 31 December 2017")

A summary of diseases currently being reported by each jurisdiction is
provided in Table 1. There were 80,388 notifications to the National
Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) between 1 October to 31
December 2017 (Table 2). The notification rate of diseases per 100,000
population for each state or territory is presented in Table 3.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [National position statement for the management of latent tuberculosis
infection](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-d "National position
statement for the management of latent tuberculosis infection")

The primary role of any tuberculosis (TB) control program is to ensure the
prompt identification and effective treatment of active disease. The host
immune system often succeeds in containing the initial (or primary) infection
with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), but may fail to eliminate the pathogen.
The persistence of viable organisms explains the potential for the development
of active disease years or even decades after infection. This is known as
latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) although, rather than a distinct entity,
this probably represents part of a dynamic spectrum. Individuals with LTBI are
asymptomatic and it is therefore clinically undetectable. The World Health
Organization (WHO) estimates that one-third of the global population has been
infected with Mtb, with highest prevalence of LTBI in countries/regions with
the highest prevalence of active disease. In 2013, 88% of 1322 notifications
in Australia were in the overseas-born population (incidence 19.5 per 100,000
v. 1.0 per 100,000), with this proportion rising over the course of the last
decade. Combined with epidemiological evidence of low local transmission, this
strongly implies that the vast majority resulted from reactivation of latent
infection acquired prior to immigration. Contrasting trends in TB incidence in
other developed countries probably reflect differences in policy regarding
LTBI. Conclusion: The diagnosis and treatment of LTBI represents an important
opportunity for intervention by jurisdictional TB control programs.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [The epidemiology of tuberculosis in the Australia Capital Territory,
2006-2015](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-h "The epidemiology
of tuberculosis in the Australia Capital Territory, 2006-2015")

This paper reviews surveillance data to describe the epidemiology of
tuberculosis in the Australian Capital Territory over a 10 year period between
2006 and 2015.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Australian Meningococcal Surveillance Programme, 1 April to 30 June
2017](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-i "Australian
Meningococcal Surveillance Programme, 1 April to 30 June 2017")

The reference laboratories of the Australian Meningococcal Surveillance
Programme (AMSP) report data on the number of cases of invasive meningococcal
disease (IMD) confirmed by laboratory testing using culture and by non-culture
based techniques. Data contained in quar­terly reports are restricted to a
description of the number of cases of IMD by jurisdiction and serogroup, where
known. A full analysis of laboratory confirmed cases of IMD in each calen­dar
year is contained in the AMSP annual reports.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Annual report: surveillance of adverse events following immunisation in
Australia, 2015](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-l "Annual
report: surveillance of adverse events following immunisation in Australia,
2015")

This report summarises Australian passive surveillance data for adverse events
following immunisation (AEFI) reported to the Therapeutic Goods Administration
(TGA) for 2015. It also describes reporting trends over the 16-year period 1
January 2000 to 31 December 2015.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Tuberculosis screening in an aged care residential facility in a low-
incidence setting](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-e
"Tuberculosis screening in an aged care residential facility in a low-
incidence setting")

This is a retrospective cohort study of tuberculosis contact tracing and
screening in an elderly residential facility in Victoria. In the absence of
specific guidelines regarding an optimal test for this population, 18
residents were tested with both tuberculin skin test (TST) and interferon-
gamma release assay (IGRA), and all underwent symptom assessment and chest
x-ray (CXR).

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Paediatric Active Enhanced Disease Surveillance (PAEDS) annual report
2015: Prospective hospital-based surveillance for serious paediatric
conditions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-m "Paediatric Active
Enhanced Disease Surveillance \(PAEDS\) annual report 2015: Prospective
hospital-based surveillance for serious paediatric conditions")

This is the second of planned annual reports to Communicable Diseases
Intelligence for Paediatric Active Enhanced Disease Surveillance (PAEDS), a
hospital-based active surveillance system for select serious paediatric
conditions of public health importance. PAEDS has a focus on monitoring
vaccine preventable diseases and adverse events following immunisation and in
2015 included surveillance for: acute flaccid paralysis; encephalitis;
influenza; intussusception; pertussis; and varicella and zoster.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [2016 Australian Paediatric Surveillance Unit Surveillance
Report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-n "2016 Australian
Paediatric Surveillance Unit Surveillance Report")

The Australian Paediatric Surveillance Unit (APSU) was established in to
facilitate national active surveillance of uncommon rare childhood diseases,
complications of common diseases or adverse effects of treatment. Currently
APSU undertakes surveillance for rare infectious diseases or rare
complications of more common infectious diseases including: acute flaccid
paralysis (AFP, a surrogate condition for polio virus infection), congenital
rubella, congenital cytomegalovirus, congenital or neonatal varicella,
neonatal and infant herpes simplex virus, perinatal exposure to HIV and
paediatric HIV infection, and juvenile onset recurrent respiratory
papillomatosis which is due to the human papilloma virus infection.
Surveillance for severe complications of influenza began in 2008. Surveillance
for microcephaly began in 2016 to identify potential case of congenital Zika
virus infection. APSU data supports clinical and public health policy and
surveillance for AFP contributes to Polio-Free certification by the WHO.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [National Tuberculosis Advisory Committee Guideline: Management of
Tuberculosis Risk in Healthcare Workers in
Australia](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-c "National
Tuberculosis Advisory Committee Guideline: Management of Tuberculosis Risk in
Healthcare Workers in Australia")

Tuberculosis (TB) is uncommon in Australia and not commonly managed by most
healthcare workers (HCWs). However, even in a low incidence setting,
occasional exposure of HCWs is inevitable and transmission of TB to HCWs
leading to disease does occur. In addition, HCWs may have been recruited to
Australia from countries with high TB incidence. These HCWs are more likely to
be infected with TB before arrival and subsequently develop active disease
while working in health settings in Australia. In 2001, there were 20 TB
notifications in HCWs in Australia, of which 10 were born overseas, whereas in
2013, 70 of 77 notified cases (91%) were people born overseas.1, 2 Managing
the risk of TB in HCWs is multifaceted. A combination of staff education,
awareness, early diagnosis, appropriate use of personal protective equipment
(PPE), environmental controls and screening procedures is required to minimise
the risk of transmission to HCWs and from HCWs to patients. Prevention of
nosocomial transmission from HCWs is particularly important in patients that
are more vulnerable, for example children and the immunocompromised. This
document aims to describe the components that are considered essential for all
healthcare facilities in Australia to minimise this risk. It is not intended
to be operational, and reference should be made to specific state and
territory TB Control Program policies for this detail. Each facility should
develop its own policy for the management of TB risk in HCWs according to this
jurisdictional policy and the facility specific factors that determine risk,
but it should include at least the following components.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Sexually Transmitted Infections in Melbourne, Australia from 1918 to
2016: nearly a century of
data](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-f "Sexually Transmitted
Infections in Melbourne, Australia from 1918 to 2016: nearly a century of
data")

This paper describes the diagnoses of gonorrhoea, syphilis and chancroid
attending a single sexual health service in Melbourne and fills a 40-year gap
(1929-1969) in STI notifications for Australia.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Tuberculosis notifications in Australia,
2014](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-k "Tuberculosis
notifications in Australia, 2014")

In 2014, the National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System received 1,339
tuberculosis (TB) notifications, representing a rate of 5.7 per 100,000
population. Australia has achieved and maintained good tuber¬culosis (TB)
control since the mid-1980s, sustaining a low annual TB incidence rate of
approximately 5 to 6 cases per 100,000 population. The number of multi-drug
resistant TB (MDR-TB) cases diagnosed in Australia is low by international
standards, with approximately 1-2% of notifications per year being classified
as MDR-TB. Australia’s overseas-born pop¬ulation continued to represent the
majority (86%) of TB notifications and Australia’s Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander population continue to record TB rates around 6 times higher
than the Australian born non Indigenous population. Whilst Australia has
achieved excellent and sustained control of TB in Australia, sustained effort
is still required to reduce rates further and contribute to the achievement of
the World Health Organization’s goal to end the global TB epidemic by 2035.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [The effects of culture independent diagnostic testing on the diagnosis
and reporting of enteric bacterial pathogens in Queensland, 2010 to
2014](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-g "The effects of culture
independent diagnostic testing on the diagnosis and reporting of enteric
bacterial pathogens in Queensland, 2010 to 2014")

This article discusses how the introduction of culture independent diagnostic
testing into pathology laboratories in Queensland has impacted diagnosis and
reporting of gastrointestinal illness. The article focuses on Salmonella,
Campylobacter, Shigella and Yersinia, and shows that the incidence of all four
pathogens increased after the introduction of culture independent diagnostic
testing. While this change in testing improves detection of pathogens, it
doesn’t provide a bacterial culture for further characterisation or
antimicrobial susceptibility testing. It is recommended that laboratories
continue to perform culture of specimens in addition to culture independent
diagnostic testing.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [How much does tuberculosis cost? An Australian healthcare perspective
analysis](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-a "How much does
tuberculosis cost? An Australian healthcare perspective analysis")

Tuberculosis (TB) remains a disease of high morbidity in Australia, with
implications for both public health and the individual. There is minimal
published TB cost data in the Australian setting. We found the costs of
managing latent TB to be far lower than in cases of active TB. A program
designed to detect and treat latent TB (LTBI) to prevent subsequent disease
may be cost effective in appropriately selected patients.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Prevention of perinatal hepatitis B virus transmission: are we following
guidelines?](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi4103-b "Prevention of
perinatal hepatitis B virus transmission: are we following guidelines?")

This article describes the results of an audit investigating the hepatitis B
vaccination completion outcomes and serological testing of infants in the
Northern Territory who were born to mothers with hepatitis B infection. The
results demonstrate that although adherence to the vaccination schedule in
this group of infants was good, mechanisms for ensuring that infants receive
serology testing need to be strengthened.

| 2017| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Ensuring National Capacity in Genomics-Guided Public Health Laboratory
Surveillance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-phln-pubs-genome-
sequencing-report.htm "Ensuring National Capacity in Genomics-Guided Public
Health Laboratory Surveillance")

This page contains a report of the Public Health Laboratory Network (PHLN)
expert advisory group on whole genome sequencing.

| 2015| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Foodborne illness in Australia: Annual incidence circa
2010](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-foodborne-illness-aust
"Foodborne illness in Australia: Annual incidence circa 2010")

This page contains information on foodborne illness in Australia.

| 2014| Current|

  * [Chronic disease](publications-Chronic disease)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)
  * [Food standards](publications-Food standards)

  
  
### [Infection Control Guidelines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/icg-
guidelines-index.htm "Infection Control Guidelines")

This document provides recommendations for infection prevention and control
procedures to minimise the risk of transmission of Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease
(CJD) in health care settings.

| 2010| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)

  
  
### [Guidelines for the public health management of gastroenteritis outbreaks
due to norovirus or suspected viral agents in
Australia](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cdna-norovirus.htm
"Guidelines for the public health management of gastroenteritis outbreaks due
to norovirus or suspected viral agents in Australia")

The Communicable Disease Network Australia (CDNA) formed a working group in
2005 in order to develop national guidance regarding outbreaks of norovirus
and suspected viral gastroenteritis, in response to increasing reports of
outbreaks. These Guidelines are designed to complement existing state and
territory guidelines.

| 2010| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Poliomyelitis Outbreak Response Plan for
Australia](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/polio-plan.htm "Poliomyelitis
Outbreak Response Plan for Australia")

This document was compiled by the Office of Health Protection in the
Department of Health.

| 2009| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)

  
  
### [Hepatitis C Prevention, Treatment and Care: Guidelines for Australian
Custodial Settings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-hepc-guidelines-
custodial-h "Hepatitis C Prevention, Treatment and Care: Guidelines for
Australian Custodial Settings")

A supplementary document to these Guidelines which provides further background
to hepatitis C in custodial settings and expands on the evidence base for the
Guidelines is available from the Department of Health. The supplementary
document also includes appendices, additional reading and references.

| 2008| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Hepatitis C](publications-Hepatitis C)

  
  
### [National Guidelines for Managing HIV Transmission Risk Behaviours
(2018)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-hiv-guideline-at-risk
"National Guidelines for Managing HIV Transmission Risk Behaviours \(2018\)")

These Guidelines have been developed, primarily for Chief Health Officers
(CHOs), to ensure consistency in the way all Australian states and territories
manage HIV transmission risk behaviours.

| 2008| Current|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](publications-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Hepatitis B](publications-Hepatitis B)
  * [Hepatitis C](publications-Hepatitis C)
  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)
  * [Sexual Health](publications-Sexual Health)

  
  
### [Review of Innovative Health Services for Homeless Youth Program - Final
Report 2007](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-ihshy-program-review-07
"Review of Innovative Health Services for Homeless Youth Program - Final
Report 2007")

The Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing (DoHA or the
“Department”) engaged Health Outcomes International (HOI) in February 2007 to
undertake a review of the Innovative Health Services for Homeless Youth
(IHSHY) program and to recommend future policy directions for the program.

| 2007| Historical|

  * [Youth health](publications-Youth health)
  * [Drugs and substance abuse](publications-Drugs and substance abuse)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Mental health](publications-Mental health)
  * [Sexual Health](publications-Sexual Health)

  
  
### [Policy on antiviral prophylaxis and the implications for pathology and
research staff](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-phln-anti-proph.htm
"Policy on antiviral prophylaxis and the implications for pathology and
research staff")

This position statement arises from a discussion session on antiviral use for
laboratory staff working with H5/Pandemic Influenza A virus at the October
2006 face-to-face meeting of the Public Health Laboratory Network (PHLN).

| 2007| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Communicable Diseases
Intelligence](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-cdi-cdicur.htm
"Communicable Diseases Intelligence")

 _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_ (CDI) is a peer-reviewed scientific
journal published by the Office of Health Protection, Department of Health and
Aged Care. The journal aims to disseminate information on the epidemiology,
surveillance, prevention and control of communicable diseases of relevance to
Australia.

| 2006| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)

  
  
### [The National Hepatitis C Strategy
2005-2008](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-hepc-
strategy-0508-cnt.htm "The National Hepatitis C Strategy 2005-2008")

The National Hepatitis C Strategy provides a foundation for national action
that will guide Australia’s response to hepatitis C over the next three years.

| 2005| Historical|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)
  * [Hepatitis C](publications-Hepatitis C)

  
  
### [National Sexually Transmissible Infections Strategy -
2005-2008](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-sti-strategy-cnt.htm
"National Sexually Transmissible Infections Strategy - 2005-2008")

The National STIs Strategy provides a foundation for national action in the
prevention and treatment of STIs in Australia.

| 2005| Historical|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](publications-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Men's health](publications-Men's health)

  
  
### [The National HIV/AIDS Strategy 2005-2008: Revitalising Australia’s
Response](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-hivaids-
strategy0508-cnt.htm "The National HIV/AIDS Strategy 2005-2008: Revitalising
Australia’s Response")

The National HIV/AIDS Strategy 2005-2008 has identified five priority areas
for action to be addressed over the life of the Strategy: development of a
targeted prevention education and health promotion program for HIV; improving
the health of people living with HIV/AIDS; developing an effective response to
the changing care and support needs of people living with HIV/AIDS; a review
of the National HIV Testing Policy; and the provision of a clearer direction
for HIV/AIDS research.

| 2005| Historical|

  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)

  
  
### [Guidelines for the control of pertussis in Australia - Communicable
Diseases Intelligence Technical Report No.
1](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pertussis-cditech.htm "Guidelines
for the control of pertussis in Australia - Communicable Diseases Intelligence
Technical Report No. 1")

The Communicable Diseases Network Australia advises that this first report in
the Communicable Diseases Intelligence Technical Report series is no longer
current.

| 2005| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [An evaluation of the Tri-State HIV/STI Project
2001-2002](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/tristateev "An evaluation of
the Tri-State HIV/STI Project 2001-2002")

This page has a PDF document and contact details in relation to the Tri-state
HIV/STI project (TSP).

| 2004| Historical|

  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Smallpox Plan](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-health-pubhlth-
smallpox.htm "Smallpox Plan")

This page provides domestic health emergency response plan for a deliberate
release of smallpox.

| 2004| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)

  
  
### [Infection control guidelines for the prevention of transmission of
infectious diseases in the health care setting, 2004
edition](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/icg-guidelines-index.htm-
historical "Infection control guidelines for the prevention of transmission of
infectious diseases in the health care setting, 2004 edition")

THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN RESCINDED.

| 2004| Rescinded|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [The Australian Government Response to the 2002 Reviews of the National
HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C
Strategies](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-metadata-hivhepc_response.htm "The Australian Government Response to
the 2002 Reviews of the National HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C Strategies")

The 2002 Reviews of the National HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C Strategies evaluated
two of the key public health strategies in Australia. The Australian
Government Response to the 2002 Reviews of the National HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis
C Strategies addresses the recommendations of the Reviews and outlines
Government policy in relation to HIV/AIDS, hepatitis C and related issues.

| 2003| Historical|

  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Hepatitis C](publications-Hepatitis C)

  
  
### [2002 Reviews of the National HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C Strategies and
Strategic Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-
publicat-document-metadata-hivhepc_review.htm "2002 Reviews of the National
HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C Strategies and Strategic Research")

In February 2002, Senator the Hon Kay Patterson, the Commonwealth Minister for
Health and Ageing, requested independent reviews of the National HIV/AIDS and
Hepatitis C Strategies to be undertaken concurrently with the quinquennial
reviews of the NationalCentres in HIV Research.

| 2003| Historical|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Hepatitis C](publications-Hepatitis C)
  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)

  
  
### [Laboratory procedures and precautions for samples collected from patients
with suspected viral haemorrhagic
fevers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-pubs-other-vhf.htm
"Laboratory procedures and precautions for samples collected from patients
with suspected viral haemorrhagic fevers")

The purpose of these guidelines is to allow the necessary on-site testing for
other possible causes of the illness, and other testing required for the
immediate and ongoing management of the patient.

| 2002| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Hepatitis C: Informing Australia's National
Response](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-hepc_informing-cnt.htm "Hepatitis C: Informing Australia's National
Response")

THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN RESCINDED: Eight papers were commissioned to inform of
the development of the National Hepatitis C Strategy 1999-2000 to 2003-2004.
The papers span the areas of: clinical research, epidemiology, social and
behavioural research, and virology and basic scientific research. This
publication represents the technical core of the policy development process.

| 2000| Rescinded|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)
  * [Hepatitis C](publications-Hepatitis C)

  
  
### [The National Hepatitis C Strategy 1999-2000 to
2003-2004](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-hepc_strat9900_0304-cnt.htm "The National Hepatitis C Strategy
1999-2000 to 2003-2004")

THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN RESCINDED: The National Hepatitis C Strategy 1999-2000
to 2003-2004 was launched in June 2000 by the Federal Minister for Health and
Aged Care. The Strategy has two primary aims to reduce the transmission of
hepatitis C in Australia, and to minimise the personal and social impacts of
hepatitis C infection.

| 2000| Rescinded|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)
  * [Hepatitis C](publications-Hepatitis C)

  
  
### [The National HIV/AIDS Strategy 1999-2000 to 2003-2004: Changes and
Challenges](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-metadata-hivstrat_4.htm "The National HIV/AIDS Strategy 1999-2000 to
2003-2004: Changes and Challenges")

THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN RESCINDED: The National HIV/AIDS Strategy 1999-2000 to
2003-2004 builds on an important foundation established under previous
HIV/AIDS Strategies - the partnership between and with affected communities,
governments at all levels, and medical, scientific and healthcare
professionals.

| 2000| Rescinded|

  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)

  
  
### [The management of HIV/AIDS: a resource guide for Indigenous primary
health care organisations](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
oatsih-pubs-hiv.htm "The management of HIV/AIDS: a resource guide for
Indigenous primary health care organisations")

This manual aims to increase awareness amongst health workers in Indigenous
primary health care organisations of the needs of Indigenous people infected
and affected by HIV/AIDS.

| 2000| Historical|

  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)
  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](publications-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Hepatitis C prevention education for injecting drug users in
Australia](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-hepc-idu-cnt.htm
"Hepatitis C prevention education for injecting drug users in Australia")

In its concern with preventing the transmission of the hepatitis C virus
(HCV), this research report examines Australia’s efforts to date in prevention
education particularly among people who inject drugs.

| 1999| Historical|

  * [Illegal drugs](publications-Illegal drugs)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Framework for an Australian Influenza Pandemic Plan - Communicable
Diseases Intelligence Technical Report No.
4](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cditech-influenza.htm "Framework
for an Australian Influenza Pandemic Plan - Communicable Diseases Intelligence
Technical Report No. 4")

The Plan provides a strategic framework for the detection and management of an
influenza pandemic in Australia. It provides a national framework and
direction for the development of plans at the State/Territory and local level.
This is the fourth report in the Communicable Diseases Intelligence Technical
Report series.

| 1999| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Hepatitis C: a review of Australia's
response](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-publicat-
document-hepc_rev-cnt.htm "Hepatitis C: a review of Australia's response")

THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN RESCINDED: The review documents the extent of the
problem posed by Hepatitis C - in terms of the prevalence and incidence of
infection, the economic costs to Australia, and the social impact of the
disease; assesses the performance of the National Hepatitis C Action Plan and
the Nationally Coordinated Hepatitis C Education and Prevention Approach;
provides a broad analysis of the current national and State- and Territory-
level responses to the epidemic; and recommendations on directions and
priorities for national action.

| 1999| Rescinded|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)
  * [Hepatitis C](publications-Hepatitis C)

  
  
### [Epidemiology of the hepatitis C virus - Communicable Diseases
Intelligence Technical Report No.
3](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cditech-hepc.htm "Epidemiology of
the hepatitis C virus - Communicable Diseases Intelligence Technical Report
No. 3")

This report of the epidemiology of Hepatitis C Virus summarises the state of
knowledge to the end of 1998. The report is based upon extensive literature
reviews and the compilation of a research register that identifies Australian
studies. This is the third report in the Communicable Diseases Intelligence
Technical Report series.

| 1999| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Discussion Document Towards a Fourth National HIV/AIDS Strategy April
1999](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-hiv-discussion "Discussion
Document Towards a Fourth National HIV/AIDS Strategy April 1999")

This paper is a discussion document provided for comment and consultation. The
development of a fourth National HIV/AIDS Strategy will involve extensive
consultation, which will take place around Australia during the second quarter
of 1999.

| 1999| Historical|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)

  
  
### [Building on success 1: a review of gay and other homosexually active
men's HIV/AIDS education in
Australia](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-pub-hac-success1-cnt.htm
"Building on success 1: a review of gay and other homosexually active men's
HIV/AIDS education in Australia")

A national review of HIV/AIDS education for gay and other homosexually active
men was conducted by the National Centre for Health Promotion. This document
reports the findings of the review and was completed in August 1998

| 1998| Historical|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)
  * [Men's health](publications-Men's health)

  
  
### [Building on success 2: towards a national strategy for HIV/AIDS health
promotion for gay and other homosexually active
men](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-pub-hac-success2-cnt.htm
"Building on success 2: towards a national strategy for HIV/AIDS health
promotion for gay and other homosexually active men")

This document outlines priorities for maintaining leadership and partnerships
in the continued promotion of HIV/AIDS health initiatives for gay and other
homosexually active men. It proposes a change from health education to health
promotion and provides strategic direction for future developments. It
contains 23 recommendations.

| 1998| Historical|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Men's health](publications-Men's health)
  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)

  
  
### [Building on success 3: the Commonwealth Government response to towards
national strategy for HIV/AIDS health promotion for gay and other homosexually
active men](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-pub-hac-success3-cnt.htm
"Building on success 3: the Commonwealth Government response to towards
national strategy for HIV/AIDS health promotion for gay and other homosexually
active men")

This document outlines the Government's commitment to maintaining the success
of HIV/AIDS health promotion for gay and other homosexually active men. It
provides a response to each of the recommendations in Building on Success 2
and gives details of specific commitments to new projects and initiatives

| 1998| Historical|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Men's health](publications-Men's health)

  
  
### [Foodborne Disease: Towards reducing foodborne illness in Australia -
Communicable Diseases Intelligence Technical Report Series No.
2](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-cditech-foodborne.htm "Foodborne
Disease: Towards reducing foodborne illness in Australia - Communicable
Diseases Intelligence Technical Report Series No. 2")

The report identifies gaps in knowledge of foodborne disease and assesses the
current trends in epidemiology, leading to recommendations to reduce foodborne
disease on a national basis. The report encourages a multi-sector approach to
the prevention, surveillance and control of foodborne diseases. This is the
second report in the Communicable Diseases Intelligence Technical Report
series.

| 1997| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [National Indigenous Australian's Sexual Health Strategy 1996-97 to
1998-99](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-oatsih-pubs-ancard.htm1
"National Indigenous Australian's Sexual Health Strategy 1996-97 to 1998-99")

The strategy provides a comprehensive approach to preventing the spread of HIV
and other sexually transmissible infections in Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander communities. It recommends action in four priority areas: prevention;
treatment, care and support; workforce issues; and research and data
collection.

| 1997| Historical|

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](publications-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health)
  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)

  
  
### [Valuing the past ... investing in the future- Evaluation of the National
HIV /AIDS Strategy 1993-94 to
1995-96](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-hiv-value "Valuing the past
... investing in the future- Evaluation of the National HIV /AIDS Strategy
1993-94 to 1995-96")

The National HIV/AIDS Strategy 1993–94 to 1995–96 is Australia’s second
National HIV/AIDS Strategy. The first Strategy operated from 1989 to 1993 and
was evaluated in 1992. This evaluation report was requested by Federal Cabinet
when it agreed to the National HIV/AIDS Strategy 1993–94 to 1995–96.

| 1995| Historical|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [HIV & AIDS](publications-HIV & AIDS)

  
  
  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **second** and **fourth** digits of 798359

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

