Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1) /
  * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm) /

# Industrial chemicals

This page contains information about the regulation of industrial chemicals in
Australia and the Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme.

 __Page last updated: 15 July 2019

## Industrial chemicals

Chemicals in Australia are regulated under a number of schemes. If a chemical
is not for a therapeutic, agricultural, veterinary or food use, it is
considered an industrial chemical.

Industrial chemicals are regulated to aid in the protection of the Australian
people and the environment from potential risks associated with the
introduction and use of the chemical.

Industrial chemicals includes a broad range of chemicals used in inks,
plastics, adhesives, paints, glues, solvents, cosmetics, soaps and many other
products.

## About the Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme

The _[Industrial Chemicals Act
2019](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019A00012 "External website
link to: Industrial Chemicals Act 2019")_ (IC Act 2019) received Royal Assent
on 12 March 2019. The IC Act 2019 establishes a new regulatory scheme, the
Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme (AICIS), for the
importation and manufacture of industrial chemicals in Australia. AICIS will
replace the current National Industrial Chemicals Notification and Assessment
Scheme (NICNAS) from 1 July 2020.

AICIS will make regulatory effort more proportionate to risk, promote safer
innovation by encouraging the introduction of lower risk chemicals and will
continue to protect the Australian people and the environment from any harmful
effects of industrial chemicals.

In addition to the IC Act 2019, there is new legislation which sets out the
framework for managing the transition from the old scheme to the new scheme.
This is the _[Industrial Chemicals (Consequential Amendments and Transitional
Provisions) Act 2019](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019A00013
"External website link to: Industrial Chemicals \(Consequential Amendments and
Transitional Provisions\) Act 2019")_.

There are also three Industrial Chemicals Charges Acts that authorise the
imposition of charges on importers and manufacturers of industrial chemicals
to recover the costs of administering the new scheme. These are the:

  * _[Industrial Chemicals Charges (Customs) Act 2019](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019A00018 "External website link to: Industrial Chemicals Charges \(Customs\) Act 2019")_
  * _[Industrial Chemicals Charges (Excise) Act 2019](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019A00019 "External website link to: Industrial Chemicals Charges \(Excise\) Act 2019")_
  * _[Industrial Chemicals Charges (General) Act 2019](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019A00020 "Industrial Chemicals Charges \(General\) Act 2019")_

Read more about the [new scheme and the
legislation](https://www.nicnas.gov.au/New-scheme-1-July-2020/Key-information-
about-the-new-scheme "External website link to: NICNAS about the new scheme")
on the NICNAS website.

## Implementation of the Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme

The new scheme will commence on 1 July 2020. The _[Industrial Chemicals Act
2019](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019A00012 "External website
link to: Industrial Chemicals Act 2019")_ (IC Act 2019) will also give effect
to the ban on the use of new animal test data for ingredients used solely in
cosmetics. The ban will also commence on 1 July 2020.

The IC Act 2019 will be supported by the Industrial Chemicals (General) Rules
and Industrial Chemicals Categorisation Guidelines (Categorisation
Guidelines), which set out technical and operational details of the new scheme
and the requirements introducers need to meet to categorise their chemicals
that are not listed on the Inventory for the new scheme. Transitional Rules
will also be established under the _[Industrial Chemicals (Consequential
Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act
2019](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2019A00013 "External website
link to: Industrial Chemicals \(Consequential Amendments and Transitional
Provisions\) Act 2019")_ to provide further details of the arrangements for
managing the transition from the old scheme, to the new scheme.

The Rules will be legislative instruments (delegated legislation) and form
part of a new legal framework for the new scheme.

NICNAS has been consulting with the public and industry since late 2015 on the
reforms. You can read more about
[consultations](https://www.nicnas.gov.au/New-
scheme-1-July-2020/Consultations-on-the-new-scheme "External website link to:
NICNAS current consultations") on the new scheme on the NICNAS website.

## Early regulatory changes affecting chemical importers and manufacturers

While the new scheme will begin on 1 July 2020, early regulatory changes are
now in effect under the current scheme. These changes will reduce regulatory
burden for introducers of some lower risk chemicals such as polymers of low
concern.

More details on the [early regulatory changes](https://www.nicnas.gov.au/New-
scheme-1-July-2020/ "External website link to: NICNAS early regulatory
changes") can be found on the NICNAS website.

## Background

NICNAS is a statutory scheme administered within the Health portfolio.

The Director of NICNAS is a statutory office holder with specific functions
under the [_Industrial Chemicals (Notification and Assessment) Act
1989_](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2016C00816 "External website
link: Industrial Chemicals \(Notification and Assessment\) Act 1989") (the
ICNA Act), including the scientific assessment of chemical risks to public
health, occupational health and safety and the environment. NICNAS also has
some responsibilities for recommending the control of risks in relation to new
and existing chemicals.

In accordance with recommendations made in a research report by the
Productivity Commission in 2008 and subsequently agreed by the Council of
Australian Governments, a policy review of NICNAS, initially progressed as a
Better Regulation Ministerial Partnership between the Minister for Finance and
Deregulation and the Minister for Health, was undertaken to evaluate and make
recommendations on the regulatory settings for the notification, assessment
and regulation of industrial chemicals. The review noted that any proposed
changes to the regulatory arrangements for industrial chemicals should not
weaken human health and environmental protection.

The review considered:

  * the role and functions of NICNAS as set out in the ICNA Act and the extent to which they adequately reflect stakeholder expectations and international best practice, having regard to the broader context of chemicals regulation in Australia
  * the governance and consultation arrangements of NICNAS and the extent to which they support the effective delivery of NICNAS' functions
  * the efficiency and effectiveness of NICNAS' operating arrangements and business processes, with particular regard to the protection of human and environmental health, the management of risk, and compliance costs for business
  * any implications for the resourcing of functions currently cost recovered, should the review recommend changed responsibilities.

In considering the options for reform, the Australian Government had regard
to:

  * the recommendations of the [Productivity Commission Research Report: Chemicals and Plastics Regulation, July 2008](https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/completed/chemicals-plastics "External website link: Productivity Commission Research Report: Chemicals and Plastics Regulation, July 2008") and relevant commitments made under the Council of Australian Governments' Seamless National Economy National Partnership Agreement
  * issues identified in the [Discussion Paper: Review of the National Industrial Chemicals Notification and Assessment Scheme (NICNAS)-June 2012](/internet/publications/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-nicnas-discussion-paper-june-2012-l) and the [Draft Options for reforming the National Industrial Chemicals Notification and Assessment Scheme - Regulation Impact Statement (June 2013)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-nicnas-draft-regulation-impact-statement.htm), and
  * the view of industry and non-industry stakeholders collected through consultation activities held during 2012, 2013 and 2014.

The final [Regulation Impact
Statement](http://ris.pmc.gov.au/2015/06/05/industrial-chemicals-assessment-
reforms-%E2%80%93-regulation-impact-statement "External website link to:
Regulatory Impact Statement") associated with the reforms for NICNAS is
available from the Office of Best Practice Regulation website.

### In this section

  *  **[ __Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)**

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fohp_nicnas_review.htm
"Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **second** and **fourth** digits of 146643

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

