Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1) /
  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu) /
  * [Medical and professional indemnity](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/portal-Medical+indemnity) /

# Medical and professional indemnity

This section contains information about to the Australian Government’s
Indemnity Insurance Fund.

 __Page last updated: 26 July 2017

[First Principles Review of the Indemnity Insurance
Fund](medical_Indemnity_First_Principles_Review)  
This page provides the terms and conditions of a First Principles Review of
the medical indemnity schemes (including the midwife professional indemnity
schemes) that make up the Indemnity Insurance Fund (IIF).

[The Indemnity Insurance Fund schemes](medicalindemnity-iifs)  
This page provides an overview of the Indemnity Insurance Fund schemes which
include the Medical Indemnity Programs for eligible private medical
practitioners and the professional indemnity schemes for eligible midwives in
private practice.

[Premium Support Scheme (PSS) – frequently asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-
pss.htm)  
This page provides an overview of the PSS and displays answers to questions on
the PSS from the viewpoint of doctors.

[Run-Off Cover Scheme (ROCS) – frequently asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-
rocs.htm)  
This page answers questions on the operation of ROCS from the viewpoint of
doctors.

[Exceptional Claims Scheme (ECS) – frequently asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-
ecs.htm)  
This page answers questions on the ECS from the viewpoint of doctors.

[High Cost Claims Scheme(HCCS) – frequently asked
questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-
hccs.htm)  
This page answers questions on the HCCS from the viewpoint of doctors.

[Incurred-But-Not-Reported (IBNR) Scheme – frequently asked questions](heath-
medicalindemnity-faq-ibnr)  
This page answers questions on the IBNR Scheme from a doctor’s point of view.

[Medical indemnity publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
medicalindemnity-pubs.htm)  
This page provides links to publications related to the Australian
Government’s support for medical and professional indemnity insurance through
the Government’s Indemnity Insurance Fund.

[Medical indemnity legislation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
medicalindemnity-legislation.htm)  
This page lists legislation affecting medical and professional indemnity (and
all underpinned regulations and determinations).

[Contact information](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
medicalindemnity-contact.htm)  
This page provides contact information for enquiries about the Indemnity
Insurance Fund.

[Useful links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-
links.htm)  
This page provides useful links for the Australian Government’s Indemnity
Insurance Fund.

  

### In this section

  *  **[ __Medical and professional indemnity](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical-indemnity.htm)**
  * [ __The Commonwealth Medical Indemnity schemes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medicalindemnity-iifs)
  * [ __Premium Support Scheme (PSS) - frequently asked questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-pss.htm)
  * [ __Run Off-Cover Scheme (ROCS) - frequently asked questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-rocs.htm)
  * [ __Exceptional Claims Scheme (ECS) - and Allied Health Exceptional Claims Scheme (AHECS) frequently asked questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-ecs.htm)
  * [ __High Cost Claims Scheme (HCCS) and Allied Health High Cost Claims Scheme (AHHCCS) – frequently asked questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-faq-hccs.htm)
  * [ __Incurred-But-Not-Reported (IBNR) Indemnity Scheme – frequently asked questions](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/heath-medicalindemnity-faq-ibnr)
  * [ __Medical indemnity publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-pubs.htm)
  * [ __Medical indemnity legislation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-legislation.htm)
  * [ __Contact Information](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-contact.htm)
  * [ __Useful Links](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicalindemnity-links.htm)
  * [ __Medical Indemnity First Principles Review and Thematic Review](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/medical_Indemnity_First_Principles_Review)
  * [ __Summary of the Medical Indemnity Reform commencing 1 July 2020](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/summary-of-the-medical-indemnity-reform-commencing-1-July-2020)
  * [ __Universal Cover Obligations](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/universal-cover-obligations+)

[ Listen ](//app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-
bin/rsent?customerid=5802&lang=en_au&readid=read&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww1.health.gov.au%2Finternet%2Fmain%2Fpublishing.nsf%2FContent%2Fmedical-
indemnity.htm "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")

  * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
  * [Biosimilar Awareness Initiative](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/biosimilar-awareness-initiative)
  * [Casemix](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-casemix-data-collections-about-HCP)
  * [Folate](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pubhlth-strateg-folate-index.htm)
  * [Living Organ Donation](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Leave-for-living-organ-donors)
  * [Medical and professional indemnity](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/portal-Medical+indemnity)

  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **first** , **third** and **last** digits of 928484

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

