Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * Initiatives and programs 

![EP
DSC00032](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/EP%20DSC00032_0.jpg?h=10d202d3&itok=sOj3t5Zq)

#  Initiatives and programs

Digital health can improve your wellbeing by connecting you to the latest
tools and technologies, giving you greater control and better access to your
health information.

## Initiatives

![My Health Record - Australian Digital Health
Agency](/sites/default/files/styles/industry_tile_short/public/2022-06/dsc000069-mhr-
image.png?h=87b035f8&itok=aA7OUApf)

### My Health Record

[My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)

![Dispenser scanning a token on a smart phone
](/sites/default/files/styles/industry_tile_short/public/2020-11/EP%20DSC00389.jpg?h=9dd951d5&itok=8JZCGznE)

### Electronic prescriptions

[Electronic prescriptions](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)

![Telehealth
Consultation](/sites/default/files/styles/industry_tile_short/public/images/telehealth-
kalgoorlie-00896-002.jpg?h=512ec0c8&itok=Tn-N1X_z)

### Telehealth

[Telehealth](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)

## Programs

### Cyber security

[Cyber security](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)

### National Digital Health Strategy

[National Digital Health Strategy and Framework for Action](/about-
us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-
action)

## Asking the big questions

What is an electronic prescription?

###  What is an electronic prescription?

Electronic prescriptions are a convenient alternative to paper prescriptions.
During your consultation your doctor will send your electronic prescription to
you as **** an SMS or an email. So you can focus on your health, not your
filing.

[Learn more about electronic prescriptions](/initiatives-and-
programs/electronic-prescriptions "Electronic prescriptions")

What are the benefits of telehealth?

###  What are the benefits of telehealth?

Whether it’s because of COVID-19, a pounding headache or anxiety, sometimes
you just can't leave the house. Thankfully, you can now chat to many
healthcare providers from the comfort of your couch. To have a telehealth
consultation, all you need to do is make a phone or video call.

[Learn more about telehealth](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth
"Telehealth")

What is My Health Record?

###  What is My Health Record?

Your record is a secure place to store your important health information. You
decide what to add to your record and who can access it – putting you in
control. Best of all, your record is available wherever you go, whenever you
need it. Want to access your record now? You sure can.

[Sign in to My Health Record via **m**
**yGov**](https://my.gov.au/LoginServices/main/login?execution=e1s1)

How are people using My Health Record?

###  How are people using My Health Record?

Everyday more Australians, doctors, specialists, pharmacists and other
healthcare providers are realising the benefits of securely storing vital
health information in My Health Record. See the latest statistics that show
how people and organisations are using My Health Record.

[Discover more](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/statistics
"Statistics")

How can technology improve my health?

###  How can technology improve my health?

Technology can help you get the healthcare you need, on your terms. For
example, you can chat to a doctor over the phone with a telehealth
consultation. You can get a prescription sent as an SMS or email. And you can
store your vital health information online for access anywhere, any time.

[Learn more about our initiatives and
programs](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/node/31)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

