Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Initiatives and programs](/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Home](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [What's inside?](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside)
  * Your COVID-19 information in one place 

![Static image of the COVID19 vaccination
dashboard](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2022-01/covid-
dashboard-booster-for-webpage.png?h=908d7663&itok=DnEQHmwy)

#  Your COVID-19 information in one place

Your COVID-19 vaccination dashboard in My Health Record contains information
about your COVID‑19 vaccinations, boosters, test results and related health
information.

### Sign in to My Health Record via myGov

You will need to have My Health Record linked to myGov to access it.

[Sign in to myGov](https://my.gov.au/)

### What to do if your immunisation details are incomplete

If the immunisation information in your dashboard is empty or seems
incomplete:

  1. Check your **Medicare Information Settings** (under the **Profile & Settings** tab). 
  2. Make sure **Yes** is selected for 'All information about immunisations recorded on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR).'

Selecting **Yes** will also let your healthcare providers see your
immunisation information.

[Learn more](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-
inside/incorrect-or-missing-information "Incorrect or missing information")

### Resources

View your record using an app

If you have a My Health Record and are set up for online access, you have the
option of using a mobile app. Mobile apps are a secure and simple way to
access your details.

[Learn more about accessing your record via a mobile app.](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-
app "https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/my-health-record-and-apps")

What to do if you think information is missing

If there are documents missing that you think should be there, ask your doctor
to upload them.

[Find out what to do if immunisation information is missing](/node/1423
"https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/what-to-do-if-information-is-missing").

Contact My Health Record Help line: 1800 723 471.  
The Help line is available 24 hours, 7 days a week.  
Free call (call charges apply from mobile phones).  
If you need an interpreter, please call [TIS
National](https://www.tisnational.gov.au/ "https://www.tisnational.gov.au/")
on 131 450.  
For hearing or speech assistance, contact the [National Relay
Service](https://www.communications.gov.au/what-we-do/phone/services-people-
disability/accesshub/national-relay-service
"https://www.communications.gov.au/what-we-do/phone/services-people-
disability/accesshub/national-relay-service") or call 1300 555 727

### Contact us

#### My Health Record enquiries

Phone: [1800 723 471](tel:1800723471) (select option 1)  
Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week

[More information](/support/contact-us "Contact us")

### How do I know if I have My Health Record?

Most Australians have a My Health Record. If you haven’t logged into your
record yet, you first need to link it to your myGov account.

[Find out how to link My Health Record to myGov](/initiatives-and-programs/my-
health-record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online "Set up your record
online").

### What’s in the COVID-19 vaccination dashboard?

This dashboard shows information from the Australian Immunisation Register and
My Health Record that may be useful during your vaccination journey. This
includes proof of vaccination, booster due date, COVID-19 PCR test results (if
uploaded) and related health information.

You can refer to the dashboard when answering questions or filling in
paperwork before a vaccination or booster.

[COVID-19 vaccination dashboard example (PDF, 2.27
MB)](/sites/default/files/2022-06/mhr-covid-dashboard.pdf
"covid-19-vaccination-dashboard-example.pdf")

From the dashboard you can:

  * check when your second vaccination or booster is due
  * download proof of past vaccinations 
  * save your COVID-19 digital certificate to a digital wallet 
  * see your recent COVID-19 PCR and other respiratory infection test results (if uploaded)
  * see any history of anaphylaxis, recent medicines, medical conditions and recent vaccinations in your record
  * link to the COVID-19 vaccine clinic finder and side effect checker

Check out our [frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-questions
"Frequently asked questions") on linking your My Health Record.

### How do I get to the dashboard?

  1. Sign in to My Health Record:  
  
[Sign in to My Health Record via
myGov](https://my.gov.au/en/myaccount/dashboard)  

  2. Select the COVID-19 Dashboard tab.

### Understanding your dashboard information

### How do I find my booster information in the dashboard?

  1. Sign in to My Health Record:  
  
[Sign in to My Health Record via
myGov](https://my.gov.au/en/myaccount/dashboard)  

  2. Select the COVID-19 Dashboard tab.

### Finding booster information

## Popular links

### Link My Health Record to myGov

my.gov.au

<https://my.gov.au/>

### Frequently asked questions

[Frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-questions)

### Set up My Health Record

[Set up your record online](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online)

### View My Health Record through mobile apps

[View My Health Record using an app](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)

### Did you find this page helpful?

Yes No

Feedback (required)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ National Provider Portal login ](https://provider.ehealth.gov.au/login.html)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/healthcare-providers/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescribing ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescribing)
  * [ Telehealth ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

