Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Initiatives and programs](/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Home](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [What's inside?](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside)
  * Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record 

![Photo: patient showing doctor
phone](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2021-06/My%20Apps%20Day%201-00353.jpg?h=a8efb6d2&itok=Mfv-
kd1l)

#  Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record

You can get proof of your vaccinations recorded on the Australian Immunisation
Register from different government sources, including My Health Record.

### What to do if your immunisation details are incomplete

If the information in your **Immunisations** page is empty or seems
incomplete:

  1. Check your **Medicare Information Settings** (under the **Profile & Settings** tab).
  2. Make sure **Yes** is selected for 'All information about immunisations recorded on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR).'

Selecting **Yes** will also let your healthcare providers see your
immunisation information.

[Learn more](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-
inside/incorrect-or-missing-information "Incorrect or missing information")

### Contact us

#### My Health Record enquiries

Phone: [1800 723 471](tel:1800723471) (select option 1)  
Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week

[More information](/support/contact-us "Contact us")

## How do I know if I have My Health Record?

Most Australians have a My Health Record. If you haven’t logged into your
record yet, you first need to link it to your myGov account.

[Find out how to link My Health Record to myGov](/initiatives-and-programs/my-
health-record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online "Set up your record
online").

### What documents provide proof of vaccination?

There are two documents available from My Health Record that provide proof of
vaccination:

  * An **immunisation history statement** shows all the immunisations you’ve had that are on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR), including COVID-19 vaccinations.
  * A **COVID-19 digital certificate** shows only your COVID-19 vaccinations. You can get your digital certificate after you’ve had at least one dose of a vaccine approved for use in Australia.

Your vaccination provider must report your vaccination information to the
Australian Immunisation Register before it will show on your immunisation
history statement or COVID-19 digital certificate.

#### What proof of vaccination do I need to travel overseas?

You may need an International COVID-19 Vaccination Certificate to travel
overseas. This international certificate is not available from My Health
Record.

**[Find out how to get your international
certificate](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/what-types-proof-there-
are/international-covid-19-vaccination-certificate-proof)**

### Where to find proof of vaccination in your record

If you [use an app to access My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-
health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app "View My
Health Record using an app"), you can get your proof of vaccination from the
immunisation section of the app.

If you’re using a browser, follow the steps below.

If you are logged into your record, you can get your proof of vaccination
documents from **record home, COVID-19 vaccination dashboard** or the
**immunisations page**.

Sign in to My Health Record:

[Sign in to My Health Record via
myGov](https://my.gov.au/en/myaccount/dashboard)

### Get your documents from record home

  1. Scroll to the **Health snapshot** section.
  2. Click **Immunisation history statement** or **COVID-19 digital certificate** to open the PDF viewer. If you're using a mobile device, you can download your digital certificate to a digital wallet.

The COVID-19 digital certificate is available once you’ve had at least one
dose of a vaccine approved for use in Australia.

![Screenshot: click immunisation history statement or COVID-19 digital
certificate](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/2021-08/health-snapshot-
including-cdc-v2.png?itok=zneeS4GO)

Example of immunisation history statement:

![Screenshot: Example of immunisation history
statement](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/2021-08/ihs-download-or-
print-no-background-v2.png?itok=3a5y4oSD)

Example of COVID-19 digital certificate:

![Screenshot: Example of COVID-19 digital
certificate](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/images/covid19_digital_certificate.png?itok=RLHX4zsp)

###

### Get your documents from the COVID-19 vaccination dashboard

  1. From the top menu, select **COVID-19 Dashboard**
  2. Click **Immunisation history statement** or **COVID-19 digital certificate** to open the PDF viewer. If you're using a mobile device, you can download your digital certificate to a digital wallet.

[Find out more about the COVID-19 vaccination
dashboard.](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/my-
health-record/covid-19-dashboard)

### Get your documents from the immunisations page

  1. From the top menu, select **Documents** and then select **Immunisation** from the drop-down menu.
  2. Click **Immunisation history statement** or **COVID-19 digital certificate** to open the PDF viewer. If you're using a mobile device, you can download your digital certificate to a digital wallet.
  3. Use the icons in the top right of the viewer to download or print your statement.

The immunisation information displayed in other sections of this page comes
from the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR) and certain clinical documents
in your record.

If the rest of this page is empty or seems incomplete:

  1. Check your **Medicare Information Settings** (under the **Profile & Settings** tab).
  2. Make sure **Yes** is selected for 'All information about immunisations recorded on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR).'

Selecting **Yes** **** will also let your healthcare providers see your
immunisation information.

[Learn more](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-
inside/incorrect-or-missing-information "Incorrect or missing information")

### Who can get proof of vaccination from My Health Record?

Anyone 14 or over and managing their own record can get proof of vaccination.

You can get proof of vaccination for someone else from My Health Record if you
are their [authorised representative](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/for-
you-your-family/howtos/become-an-authorised-representative) or [nominated
representative](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/for-you-your-
family/howtos/view-someones-record-nominated-representative).

You can get proof of vaccination from My Health Record even if you're not
eligible for Medicare or DVA benefits.

Find out how to [get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA
card](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/mhr-without-medicare-details).

Check out our [frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-questions
"Frequently asked questions") on getting proof of your vaccination.

### Find out what other information is available in My Health Record

### Sign in to My Health Record via myGov

[Sign in to myGov](https://my.gov.au/)

## Popular links

### Link My Health Record to myGov

my.gov.au

<https://my.gov.au/>

### Frequently asked questions

[Frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-questions)

### Set up My Health Record

[Set up your record online](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online)

### View My Health Record through mobile apps

[View My Health Record using an app](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)

### Did you find this page helpful?

Yes No

Feedback (required)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ National Provider Portal login ](https://provider.ehealth.gov.au/login.html)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/healthcare-providers/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescribing ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescribing)
  * [ Telehealth ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

