Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * [Support](/support)
  * Glossary 

#  Glossary

## A

### access code

See personal access code (PAC)

### access history

A record of all activity related to an individual’s My Health Record. Every
time My Health Record is accessed, changed or a user removes information from
the record, an automatic audit trail is created and can be viewed.

### access list

A list associated with an individual’s My Health Record that specifies the
registered healthcare provider organisations permitted to, or blocked from,
accessing an individual’s My Health Record. The access list will show the
healthcare provider organisations who have previously accessed the record.

### accessing organisation

The healthcare organisation that accesses the My Health Record system.

### achievement diary

Developmental milestones throughout childhood, such as first words spoken or
the first day of primary school, can be recorded in the achievement diary by
an individual or their authorised representatives, such as a parent.
Healthcare provider organistations cannot view these.

### administration portal

An online tool used by the System Operator for administrative actions on
individual My Health Records, for example when assisting an individual with an
enquiry.

### advance care document custodian

An advance care document custodian is someone who holds a copy of an
individual’s advance care planning document. An individual can add their
advance care document custodian’s name and contact details in their My Health
Record so that doctors will be able to contact the custodian should the need
arise.

### advance care planning documents

A document that is a type of written statement regarding a person’s wishes for
their future medical or healthcare treatment and may formally appoint a
substitute decision-maker. Advance care planning documents detail your future
medical care preferences. It provides guidance to your family, close friends
and medical professionals if you are unable to communicate due to illness or
injury. Advance care planning documents (and goals of care documents) can be
uploaded to and stored on your My Health Record by a healthcare provider with
your consent. Also refer to goals of care document.

### advanced access controls

The access controls that enable a registered individual to set controls on the
registered healthcare provider organisations and nominated representatives who
may access the individual’s My Health Record or documents within it.

### assisted registration

The process that enables healthcare providers to assist their patients to
register for a My Health Record.

### Assisted Registration Tool (ART)

Purpose-built software to enable an HPI-O to assert a patient’s identity and
then submit their details to the My Health Record system for registration.

### Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (Ahpra)

The organisation responsible for the implementation of the [National
Registration and Accreditation
Scheme](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/~/link.aspx?_id=D4E5EF420D3C4EAB8B247FDB72CA6E0A&_z=z
"External link opens new browser tab") across Australia. The Ahpra currently
regulates 15 health professions.

### authoring organisation

The healthcare provider organisation that created the content of a document.

### authorisation link

A link that connects a healthcare provider to a healthcare provider
organisation so the healthcare provider can access the My Health Record system
via the National Provider Portal on behalf of their organisation.

### authorised employee

An employee of a registered healthcare provider organisation who has been
authorised by the organisation to use the My Health Record system and access
an individual's My Health Record on behalf of the organisation.

### authorised representative

Someone who can apply for and manage a My Health Record on behalf of another
person. For the purposes of the My Health Record system someone can be an
authorised representative if they:

  * have parental responsibility for a person under 14; or
  * have legal authority to act on behalf of a person who is at least 14 and who is not capable of making his or her own decisions.

If there is no one with parental responsibility or legal authority, a person
who is otherwise appropriate to act on behalf of the individual can be an
authorised representative. An individual can have more than one authorised
representative.

## B

### Business to Business Gateway (B2B Gateway)

An access channel by which external systems, such as clinical information
systems and registered repositories, interact with the My Health Record
system.

## C

### channel

A means of entry into the My Health Record system to enable reading and
updating My Health Records. For example, individuals can use the National
Consumer Portal or providers may use the system via B2B.

### child development

The section of the My Health Record that contains information about childhood
growth and development.

### Clinical Document Architecture (CDA)

An HL7 standard intended to specify the encoding, structure and semantics of
clinical documents for exchange.

### clinical information system (CIS)

A system that is used by a healthcare provider to manage patient and practice
records. It may include a software component connected to the My Health Record
system.

### clinical synopsis

A short summary of a healthcare event (e.g. reason for visit, diagnosis etc)
included in an event summary.

### conformant digital certificate (for the My Health Record system)

An electronic credential used to secure access in the My Health Record system.

### Consumer Portal

The portal that is used by an individual who has set up access to their My
Health Record online.

### consumer-shared documents

Documents that have been authored by an individual, authorised representative
or full access nominated representative. These documents, such as personal
health summary, are available to provider organisations and other
representatives.

### Contracted Service Provider (CSP)

See registered contracted service provider

### contracted service provider (CSP) officer

The officer who acts as the liaison between a registered contracted service
provider and the System Operator. There must be at least one CSP officer and
there can be up to three at one time.

## D

### default access controls

The access controls that apply where a registered individual has not set
controls on the registered healthcare provider organisations or nominated
representatives who may access the individual’s My Health Record. This means
that any registered healthcare provider organisation involved in your
healthcare can access your record.

### diagnostic imaging report

A diagnostic imaging (or radiology) report is primarily a written
communication between the radiologist interpreting the imaging study (eg
X-ray, MRI) and the clinician who requested the examination.

## E

### emergency access

Access by a registered healthcare provider organisation to an individual’s My
Health Record to lessen or prevent a serious threat to a person’s life, health
or safety and where it is unreasonable or impracticable to obtain the
individual’s consent. If a participant asserts that these circumstances exist,
the access controls of the individual’s My Health Record are overridden.
Emergency access can also occur where it is necessary to lessen or prevent a
serious threat to public health or public safety. Emergency access expires
five days after the assertion of the emergency is made.

### eReferral

eReferral specification supports the seamless exchange of significant patient
information from one treating healthcare provider to another via a national
system of creating, storing and sharing referral reports.

### event summary

A clinical document that may be uploaded to an individual’s My Health Record
summarising one or more episodes of care.

## F

### full access nominated representative (FANR)

A representative can perform all the functions of an authorised representative
in respect of an individual’s My Health Record. They cannot give another
person access to your record, make changes to your other representatives, make
changes to your Medicare information or cancel your record. A full access
nominated representative must verify their identity to the System Operator.

## G

### general access (applied to a clinical document)

Document access setting which can be set from the _Manage Document Access_
screen of the National Consumer Portal. A general access document is available
to be viewed by all healthcare organisations that have access to the My Health
Record. By default, all documents are set to general in My Health Record.

### general access (applied to a healthcare provider organisation)

An access level that can be given to an organisation accessing an individual’s
My Health Record. General access for a healthcare provider organisation allows
any authorised employee within that organisation to access the My Health
Record and read (view) those documents marked as general access. It also
classifies all documents this organisation writes (adds) to the record as
general access. An alternative access level that can be applied to healthcare
provider organisations is restricted access.

### general access (applied to a nominated representative)

The setting for a nominated representative that can be set in the _Manage
Access to this Record_ screen of the National Consumer Portal. The general
access setting allows a nominated representative to access the individual’s My
Health Record and view those documents classified as general access.

### goals of care document

Outlines the aims of a patient’s medical treatment, as agreed in consultation
between the patient, family, carers and healthcare team, including substitute
decision makers. Making this information available in My Health Record will
support end-of-life care that is consistent with a person’s goals, values,
beliefs and preferences. Goals of care documents can be uploaded into your My
Health Record by your healthcare provider with your consent, and will appear
in the Advance Care Planning section.

### growth charts

Charts in the child development section that can be used to graph the
measurement information recorded for a child over a certain time period,
including height, weight, and head circumference.

## H

### health check assessment schedule

The schedule in the child development section which displays a list of
questions for parents within a child’s current selected state or territory
that can be completed by the individual, or representatives, for different
childhood age brackets.

### Health Check Assessment Schedule

The schedule in the child development section which displays a list of
questions for parents within a child’s current selected state or territory
that can be completed by the individual, or representatives, for different
childhood age brackets.

### health check questionnaires

A list of available questions about a child’s health and development is
available from the Health Check Assessment Schedule in a My Health Record and
can be completed by parents or the alternate authorised representatives
involved in a child’s healthcare.

### health information

The information that relates to the individual’s physical or psychological
health, and includes the dispensing of medicines and the provision of aged
care, palliative care, and care for a person with a disability.

### Health Professional Online Services (HPOS)

The service that provides Services Australia services to health professionals
through a secure online channel. Services accessed through HPOS include
application for My Health Record registration and the ability for a HPI-O to
link to a CSP.

### health service

The Privacy Act 1988, defines healthcare as an activity performed in relation
to an individual which is intended or claimed (expressly or otherwise) by the
individual or the person performing it:

(a) to assess, maintain or improve the individual's health; or  
(b) where the individual's health cannot be maintained or improved--to manage
the individual's health; or  
(c) to diagnose the individual's illness, disability or injury; or  
(d) to treat the individual's illness, disability or injury or suspected
illness, disability or injury; or  
(e) to record the individual's health for the purposes of assessing,
maintaining, improving or managing the individual's health.

### Healthcare Identifiers Act (HI Act)

The _Healthcare Identifiers Act 2010_ , which establishes the Healthcare
Identifiers Service and regulates related matters.

### Healthcare Identifiers Service (HI Service)

A national system for uniquely identifying healthcare providers and
individuals, which makes sure the right health information is associated with
the right individual – see IHI, HPI-I and HPI-O.

### healthcare professional

See healthcare provider.

### healthcare provider

A person who is involved in or associated with healthcare delivery. For the
purposes of the My Health Record system, a healthcare provider is a person who
has an HPI-I and is authorised by a registered healthcare provider
organisation to access the My Health Record system on their behalf.

Note: this was previously referred to as ‘individual healthcare provider’

### Healthcare Provider Directory (HPD)

A voluntary provider directory service established and maintained by the
Healthcare Identifiers Service Operator.

### Healthcare Provider Identifier – Individual (HPI-I)

A unique 16-digit number used to identify individual healthcare providers who
deliver healthcare in the Australian healthcare setting.

### Healthcare Provider Identifier – Organisation (HPI-O)

A unique 16-digit number used to identify organisations that deliver
healthcare in the Australian healthcare setting.

### healthcare provider organisation

An organisation, or a part of an organisation, that has conducted, conducts,
or will conduct, healthcare.

### healthcare provider organisation access

The level of access that a healthcare provider organisation has to an
individual’s My Health Record. See also _general access (healthcare provider
organisation)_ and _restricted access (healthcare provider organisation)_.

## I

### identity verification code (IVC)

A code that is generated during the registration process for individuals on
the Assisted Registration Tool, or via phone or face to face channels. The IVC
proves that their identity has been verified by the My Health Record system.
The IVC is used to access the individual’s My Health Record online for the
first time.

### indigenous status

A status indicator that is stored within the My Health Record for individuals
who wish to indicate whether they are of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander
origin. This indicator is voluntary.

### Individual Healthcare Identifier (IHI)

A 16-digit unique number used to identify individuals who receive or may
receive healthcare in the Australian health system.

### individual or patient

A person who has received, receives or may receive healthcare in Australia.

### individual reference number (IRN)

A number that represents the position of a person's name on a Medicare card.
For example, a person who is listed second on a Medicare card has an IRN of 2.
The IRN appears to the left of the patient’s name on their Medicare card. This
is not a unique identifier.

### inheriting organisation

A healthcare provider organisation that inherits access levels in relation to
My Health Records from an accessing organisation.

## L

### lack capacity

Mental capacity means being able to make your own decisions. Someone lacking
capacity - because of an illness or disability such as a mental health
problem, dementia or a learning disability - cannot do one or more of the
following four things:

  1. Understand information given to them about a particular decision,
  2. Retain that information long enough to be able to make the decision,
  3. Weigh up the information available to make the decision,
  4. Communicate their decision.

### limited document access code (LDAC)

A code (4-8 alphanumeric characters) that an individual can provide to
healthcare providers so that they can access documents marked as _Restricted_
in the individual’s My Health Record.

### local system identifier (LSI)

An identifier that is used by healthcare provider organisations to identify
authorised employees who have read and upload (but not write) access to the My
Health Record system on their behalf.

## M

### Medicare information preferences

Preferences that allow an individual to decide whether certain information
(Medicare Benefits Schedule, Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, Australian Organ
Donor Register, Australian Immunisation Register, Repatriation Pharmaceutical
Benefits Scheme and Department of Veterans’ Affairs data) is included in their
My Health Record.

### Medicare overview

The screen that provides a consolidation, or overview, of the Medicare
information in the My Health Record. This can include Medicare Benefits
Schedule, Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, and Australian Organ Donor Register.
The Medicare overview is accessed via the Documents menu.

### medicine record

A summary of prescription and dispense information for the My Health Record.
It delivers a list of medications that have been prescribed and dispensed to
the individual.

Note: this was previously referred to as _medications view._

### medicines information

The view that quickly sorts and displays the most recent and available
medicines information and documents in the individual’s My Health Record. It
can include the individual’s latest shared health summary or discharge
summary, up to two years of prescription and dispense records, and any allergy
or adverse reactions. The _medicines information_ view can be found under the
_Documents_ tab in an individual’s My Health Record.

### mobile gateway

A mechanism for mobile applications to securely integrate and interact with
the My Health Record system and allow individuals and authorised
representatives access to My Health Records. The mobile gateway does not
authenticate healthcare providers.

### My Health Record

The record of information created and maintained by the System Operator in
relation to the individual, and information that can be obtained by means of
that record, including the following:

  * information that relates to the individual in the record relating to the individual’s registration;
  * health information connected in the My Health Record system to the individual, including information included in a record accessible through the index service;
  * other information connected in the My Health Record system to the individual, such as information relating to auditing access to the record; and
  * back-up records of such information.

### My Health Record system

The system that is used for the operation of functions under the _My Health
Records Act_ by the System Operator. The My Health Record system was launched
on 1 July 2012 and provides a system of managing health information online
that will make it more accessible to Australians who choose to sign up with
the system, and healthcare providers. The My Health Record system is supported
by a legislative framework consisting of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ ,
_Healthcare Identifiers Act 2010_ , _My Health Records Regulation 2012_ ,
_Healthcare Identifiers Regulations 2010_ and _My Health Records Rule 2016_.
Note: this was previously referred to as the _personally controlled electronic
health record_ or _PCEHR_.

### My Health Records Act 2012

The _My Health Records Act 2012_ commenced on 29 June 2012 and provides the
critical components of the My Health Record system, while the operational
detail is contained in the _My Health Records Rule 2016_. The _My Health
Records Act_ establishes the role of the My Health Record System Operator, a
registration framework for consumers and participants, a privacy and security
framework, penalty provisions and common mechanisms associated with the
transparency and scrutiny of the Act.

### My Health Records Regulation 2012

The regulation that supports the effective operation of the My Health Record
system by identifying the System Operator and providing additional detail in
respect of various definitions, the collection of important information and
the interaction of state and territory laws.

### My Health Records Rules 2012

The My Health Records Rules (currently consisting of the My Health Records
Rule 2016, My Health Records (National Application) Rules 2017 and the My
Health Records (Assisted Registration) Rule 2015) contain requirements
regarding the day to day operation of the My Health Record system.

### myGov

A secure myGov account gives individuals access to a range of Australian
Government services.

## N

### NASH organisation PKI certificate

A digital certificate that authenticates a healthcare provider organisation to
access the My Health Record system, using conformant clinical software.

### National Authentication Service for Health (NASH)

A system for verifying the authenticity of patients and professionals for the
purpose of ensuring the privacy of a person’s electronic health data, while
enabling secure access to the data by the person’s authorised health
providers.

### National E-Health Transition Authority (NEHTA)

The organisation established by the Australian, state and territory
governments to develop better ways of electronically collecting and securely
exchanging health information. NEHTA ceased to operate on 30 June 2016.

### National Infrastructure Operator (NIO)

The business area responsible for providing and managing the My Health Record
system on behalf of the System Operator.

### National Repositories Service (NRS)

The service that ensures that there is capacity to store a minimum critical
set of health information about registered individuals, including shared
health summaries, event summaries, discharge summaries, specialist letters,
prescribed and dispensed medications and healthcare recipient-only notes. The
System Operator operates the NRS.

### network hierarchy

A hierarchy that is made up of a seed organisation (the lead healthcare
provider organisation of the network hierarchy) and may include one or more
network organisations.

### network organisation

A healthcare provider organisation with an HPI-O that is part of a network
hierarchy and is subordinate to a seed organisation. Network organisations can
be used to represent different departments, sections or divisions within an
organisation (e.g. departments within a hospital) or can be separate legal
entities from the seed organisation.

### nominated healthcare provider

The author of a shared health summary. Under the My Health Records Act 2012, a
nominated healthcare provider must be a medical practitioner, a registered
nurse or an Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander health practitioner (with
Certificate IV in Primary Health Care). The healthcare provider and the
individual must agree that, for the purposes of the My Health Record system,
the healthcare provider is the individual’s nominated healthcare provider.

### nominated representative

A representative who is provided access to a My Health Record by the
individual or the individual’s authorised representative. A nominated
representative can view your health information. A nominated representative
with read-only access is not required to provide any evidence of identity to
the System Operator.

### notification settings

This is an area in the My Health Record where an individual can set
preferences for when and how to receive notification when someone accesses
their My Health Record, or when a new document is uploaded to their record.

## O

### organisation maintenance officer (OMO)

An employee of a healthcare provider organisation who has authority to act on
behalf of the healthcare organisation with respect to the HI Service and My
Health Record system.

## P

### participant

A participant in the My Health Record system is the System Operator, a
registered healthcare provider organisation, a registered repository operator,
a registered portal operator, a registered contracted service provider and the
operator of the National Repositories Service.

### participation agreements

Prior to 2016, healthcare provider organisations, contracted service
providers, repository operators and portal operators were required to enter
into, and remain a party to, a participation agreement with the System
Operator to be registered to participate in the My Health Record system. The
agreement included rights and obligations for both the organisation and the
System Operator relating to the uploading of records to the My Health Record
system, the allocation of liability between the parties, and the processes for
notifying key events and changes. In 2016, the requirement to enter into a
participation agreement was removed and the rights and obligations in it were
transferred into the [My Health Records Act
2012](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2020C00372 "External link opens
new browser tab") and [My Health Records Regulation
2012](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2020C00372 "External link opens
new browser tab").

### pathology report

A pathology report contains the findings of test results on samples of body
fluid/waste or tissue material. Doctors and other healthcare providers use
this information to for diagnosis and treatment of diseases and other
conditions.

### pending nominated representatives

Representatives who have been appointed as an individual’s nominated
representative and have had an access code generated, but who are yet to log
into the My Health Record system using the access code.

### personal access code (PAC)

A code generated by the individual to provide a nominated representative with
access to the individual’s My Health Record.

Note: this was previously referred to as the _access code_

### personal controls

The controls that provide a single point within an individual’s My Health
Record to view information about their personal settings.

### personal health notes

Personal notes added by a consumer to their My Health Record. This can be
considered their private health diary and is not visible to healthcare
providers.

Note: this is a ‘healthcare recipient-only note’ as referred to in the _My
Health Records Act_.

### personal health summary

A document created by the individual that includes medications, allergies and
adverse reactions. This document of the My Health Record is accessible by
healthcare providers (unlike the personal health notes).

Note: this was previously referred to as _consumer entered health summary_

### personal observations

Now called achievement diary

### personally controlled electronic health record (PCEHR)

Former name of the My Health Record.

### prescription and dispense records

Records that incorporate prescription and dispense information to provide a
consolidated record of medications – which are available as two clinical
documents (My Health Record Prescription Record and My Health Record Dispense
Record) available in consumer, B2B and provider portals.

### proof of record ownership (PORO)

Method of identification used by Services Australia to verify someone's
identity.

### Provider Digital Access (PRODA)

Services Australia service that allows a healthcare provider with an HPI-I to
access the My Health Record National Provider Portal for read-only purposes.

### provider portal

The interface through which healthcare provider organisations can access the
My Health Record system and view an individual’s My Health Record without
having to use a clinical information system. The National Provider Portal is a
view only service.

## R

### record access code (RAC)

A code which can be used to restrict access to an individual’s My Health
Record. The code is provided to a healthcare provider so that the healthcare
organisation is granted access to an individual’s My Health Record.

### registered contracted service provider (CSP)

An entity that provides information technology services, or health information
management services, relating to the My Health Record system to a healthcare
provider organisation under contract with that organisation, and has
registered to participate in the My Health Record system.

### registered individual

An individual who is registered in the My Health Record system and has a My
Health Record.

### registered portal operator (RPO)

A person who is the operator of an electronic interface that facilitates
access to the My Health Record system, and is registered to participate in the
My Health Record system.

### responsible officer (RO)

A person with authority to act on behalf of a healthcare organisation with
respect to the HI Service.

### restricted access (healthcare provider organisation)

An access level that can be applied to healthcare provider organisations by an
individual. This allows an organisation to have restricted access to an
individual’s clinical documents.

### restricted access settings

Settings that allow an individual to choose restrict documents or your record,
you can change this to allow specific healthcare provider organisations
access.

Note: this was previously referred to in the Concept of Operations as _limited
access_

## S

### seed organisation

A healthcare provider organisation with an HPI-O that is the head of a network
hierarchy which may or may not include subordinate network organisations.

### shared health summary (SHS)

A clinical document summarising an individual’s health status and includes
important information such as allergies/adverse reactions, medicines, medical
history and immunisations. Only a nominated healthcare provider can create or
update the shared health summary.

### specialist letter

The document used by a treating specialist to respond to a GP about a referred
patient. It is based on the usual practice where a specialist writes back to
the GP.

### System Operator

The participant with responsibility for establishing and operating the My
Health Record system. The System Operator is presently the Australian Digital
Health Agency.

## V

### Veteran and Australian Defence Force (ADF) status indicator

The Veteran and ADF status indicator is stored within the My Health Record for
individuals who wish to indicate whether they are a current or former serving
ADF member. This indicator is voluntary.

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

