Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * About us 

![About Us Homepage
Illustration](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/CSR-1823%20ADHA%20Website_About%20Us%20-%20Option%201.png?h=d45b70e4&itok=lprWfQfU)

#  About us

When it comes to improving the health of all Australians, the role of digital
innovation and connection is a vital part of a modern, accessible healthcare
system.

The Australian Digital Health Agency (the Agency) is a corporate Commonwealth
entity established by the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016.

Under the backdrop of COVID-19, digital health has seen exponential growth in
relevance and importance, making it more pertinent than ever for all
Australians and healthcare providers.

### Our vision

A healthier future for Australians through connected healthcare

### Our mission

To create a collaborative environment to accelerate adoption and use of
innovative digital services and technologies

## Our values

### Collaborative

We get our best results working collaboratively – this is how we excel.

### Transparent

We share our knowledge and our skills because, when we work in an open and
frank way, we demonstrate that we trust and respect each other.

### Respectful and trusting

We care about each other and we treat everyone in a way that we would want to
be treated. We know with conviction that we can rely on each other because it
is only together that we can achieve greatness.

### Innovative

We seek to understand new and different ways to improve delivery and
performance for digital health.

### Accountable

We are all accountable for living our values and taking responsibility for our
actions. When we think this way, we will always be focusing on doing things
that are right and good.

## Our divisions

![Photo: patient showing doctor
phone](/sites/default/files/styles/industry_tile_short/public/2021-06/My%20Apps%20Day%201-00353.jpg?h=a8efb6d2&itok=2IKCAulq)

### Digital strategy

The digital strategy division is responsible for national digital health
design and strategy, underpinned by strong clinical governance and digital
health standards.

![Kuku Yalanji man Linc Walker shows local bush medicine to Port Douglas
pharmacist Brad
Reilly](/sites/default/files/styles/industry_tile_short/public/2021-07/PHOTO%20-%20Kuku%20Yalanji%20man%20Linc%20Walker%20shows%20local%20bush%20medicine%20to%20Port%20Douglas%20pharmacist%20Brad%20Reilly.jpg?h=7c9d1508&itok=LFRkMgiq)

### Technology services

The technology services division is responsible for the operation of high
quality, trusted, reliable and secure national digital health infrastructure
and health support systems.

![Photo: woman at
computer](/sites/default/files/styles/industry_tile_short/public/2021-05/Cairns%20Community%201-00933.jpg?h=271ceea6&itok=-fAzohyj)

### Policy programs and engagement

The policy programs and engagement division is responsible for informing
policies, managing external stakeholder relationships, and being the place of
excellence for driving program delivery, reporting and outcomes.

![Photo:
family](/sites/default/files/styles/industry_tile_short/public/2021-06/Allergy%20Pal%20Famlies-2255.jpg?h=7f91bee6&itok=mPuaAH4A)

### Corporate services

The corporate services division is responsible for bringing together our
corporate enabling services so that they are coordinated, effective and
mutually reinforcing.

### Are you interested in a digital health career?

Visit our [careers](/careers "Careers") page to find out what our staff value
about working at the Agency, and see what current vacancies are available.

[Apply now](/careers)

## Our strategies and plans

### National Digital Health Strategy and Framework for Action

[National Digital Health Strategy and Framework for Action](/about-
us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-
action)

### Corporate plans

[Corporate plans](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/corporate-plans)

### Reflect Reconciliation Action Plan

[Reflect Reconciliation Action Plan](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/reflect-
reconciliation-action-plan)

### Leadership Strategy

[Leadership Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/leadership-strategy)

### Workforce Strategy

[Workforce Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/workforce-strategy)

### Clinical Governance Framework

[Clinical Governance Framework](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/clinical-
governance-framework)

## Learn more about the agency

### Board members and executive team

[Board members and executive team](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)

### Digital health advisers

[Digital health advisers](/about-us/digital-health-advisers)

### Policies, privacy and reporting

[Policies, privacy and reporting](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)

### Annual reports

[Annual reports](/about-us/annual-reports)

### Careers

[Careers](/careers)

### Our websites

[Our websites](/about-us/our-websites)

### Accessibility

[Accessibility](/about-us/accessibility)

## Governance

The Agency is currently governed by a skills-based Board comprised of members
with skills, knowledge and experience relevant to business leadership as well
as the health sector. The Board is the Agency’s Accountable Authority for the
purposes of the [_Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act
2013_](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2017C00269).

To assist the Board in carrying out its functions, the following four standing
advisory committees have been established under the [Public Governance,
Performance and Accountability (Establishing the Australian Digital Health
Agency) Rule 2016](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2016L00070):

  * the Clinical and Technical Advisory Committee,
  * the Jurisdictional Advisory Committee,
  * the Consumer Advisory Committee,
  * the Privacy and Security Advisory Committee.

## History

The 2015-16 Budget announcement _My Health Record – A New Direction for
Electronic Health Records in Australia_ authorised the establishment of the
Australian Digital Health Agency (the Agency) to strengthen digital health
governance arrangements.

The Agency was established by the Public Governance, Performance and
Accountability (Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule, which
was made by the Commonwealth Minister for Finance under section 87 of the
Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act.

Guidance on the establishment of the Agency was provided by a Digital Health
Implementation Taskforce Steering Committee (the Steering Committee), which
comprised of key digital health industry, consumer and healthcare
stakeholders.

The Steering Committee was formed in September 2015 to work collaboratively
with key health sector stakeholders, all jurisdictions, the Commonwealth
Departments of Health and Human Services, and the National E-Health Transition
Authority Limited to lead the establishment of the structure, governance and
operations of the Agency, and to plan and manage the transition of relevant
functions and resources to the Agency.

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

