Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * [Newsroom](/newsroom)
  * Media releases 

![Media releases
illustration](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/CSR-1823%20ADHA%20Website_Media%20Releases%20Care%20Thumbnail%20Square_0.png?h=08f7ec11&itok=tj9nw0xO)

##  Media releases

Stay up to date with the latest news and information from the Agency.

Search within this section

Topics  \- Any -ConsultationCyber securityEnhanced Models of
CareInnovationMedicines SafetyNational Clinical Terminology
ServicePartnershipsSecure messagingSpecialistsWorkforce and
educationElectronic prescriptionsMy Health RecordTelehealthTraining and
support

3 March 2023

### New mobile app addresses surging consumer demand for key health
information

**Media releases** • General

[New mobile app addresses surging consumer demand for key health
information](/newsroom/media-releases/new-mobile-app-addresses-surging-
consumer-demand-for-key-health-information)

1 February 2023

### Summit on Clinical Governance in Digital Health to help drive safety,
quality and continuous improvement

**Media releases** • General

[Summit on Clinical Governance in Digital Health to help drive safety, quality
and continuous improvement](/newsroom/media-releases/summit-on-clinical-
governance-in-digital-health-to-help-drive-safety-quality-and-continuous-
improvement)

20 December 2022

### Increased cyber security requirements for systems connecting to My Health
Record

**Media releases** • Cyber security

[Increased cyber security requirements for systems connecting to My Health
Record](/newsroom/media-releases/increased-cyber-security-requirements-for-
systems-connecting-to-my-health-record)

1 November 2022

### Australian Digital Health Agency and CSIRO join forces to help connect
Australia's healthcare system

**Media releases** • National Clinical Terminology Service

[Australian Digital Health Agency and CSIRO join forces to help connect
Australia's healthcare system](/newsroom/media-releases/australian-digital-
health-agency-and-csiro-join-forces-to-help-connect-australias-healthcare-
system)

17 October 2022

### New plan to deliver digital health capability across the health workforce
to respond to the needs of consumers now and in the future.

**Media releases** • Workforce and education

[New plan to deliver digital health capability across the health workforce to
respond to the needs of consumers now and in the future.](/newsroom/media-
releases/new-plan-to-deliver-digital-health-capability-across-the-health-
workforce-to-respond-to-the-needs-of-consumers-now-and-in-the-future)

24 August 2022

### Australian Digital Health Agency signs agreement with HL7 Australia to
help connect Australia’s healthcare system

**Media releases** • Partnerships

[Australian Digital Health Agency signs agreement with HL7 Australia to help
connect Australia’s healthcare system](/newsroom/media-releases/australian-
digital-health-agency-signs-agreement-with-hl7-australia-to-help-connect-
australias-healthcare-system)

18 August 2022

### Royal Perth Hospital the first public hospital with electronic
prescriptions

**Media releases** • Electronic prescriptions

[Royal Perth Hospital the first public hospital with electronic prescriptions
](/newsroom/media-releases/royal-perth-hospital-the-first-public-hospital-
with-electronic-prescriptions)

13 October 2021

### Queensland’s largest private radiology provider uploads reports to My
Health Record

**Media releases** • My Health Record

[Queensland’s largest private radiology provider uploads reports to My Health
Record](/newsroom/media-releases/queenslands-largest-private-radiology-
provider-uploads-reports-to-my-health-record)

6 August 2021

### Gurriny Yealamucka connects Yarrabah community with technology for better
healthcare

**Media releases** • My Health Record

[Gurriny Yealamucka connects Yarrabah community with technology for better
healthcare](/newsroom/media-releases/gurriny-yealamucka-connects-yarrabah-
community-with-technology-for-better-healthcare)

15 July 2021

### Electronic prescriptions making telehealth easier for Australians

**Media releases** • Electronic prescriptions

[Electronic prescriptions making telehealth easier for
Australians](/newsroom/media-releases/electronic-prescriptions-making-
telehealth-easier-for-australians)

14 July 2021

### My Health Record continues to grow with the addition of new ultrasound
practice uploads

**Media releases** • My Health Record

[My Health Record continues to grow with the addition of new ultrasound
practice uploads](/newsroom/media-releases/my-health-record-continues-to-grow-
with-the-addition-of-new-ultrasound-practice-uploads)

5 July 2021

### Contract awarded for modernisation of national digital health
infrastructure

**Media releases** • My Health Record

[Contract awarded for modernisation of national digital health infrastructure
](/newsroom/media-releases/contract-awarded-for-modernisation-of-national-
digital-health-infrastructure)

2 July 2021

### New My Health Record pathology training modules as more labs are uploading
patient test results

**Media releases** • Training and support

[New My Health Record pathology training modules as more labs are uploading
patient test results](/newsroom/media-releases/new-my-health-record-pathology-
training-modules-as-more-labs-are-uploading-patient-test-results)

2 July 2021

### Digital records support preservation of bush medicine information

**Media releases** • My Health Record

[Digital records support preservation of bush medicine
information](/newsroom/media-releases/digital-records-support-preservation-of-
bush-medicine-information)

28 June 2021

### Cancer patients use smartphones to provide feedback on their care
experience

**Media releases** • Innovation

[Cancer patients use smartphones to provide feedback on their care
experience](/newsroom/media-releases/cancer-patients-use-smartphones-to-
provide-feedback-on-their-care-experience)

25 June 2021

### Provider Connect Australia - helping healthcare providers stay connected

**Media releases** • Secure messaging

[Provider Connect Australia - helping healthcare providers stay
connected](/newsroom/media-releases/provider-connect-australia-helping-
healthcare-providers-stay-connected)

17 June 2021

### ACT consumers can now access diagnostic imaging reports in their My Health
Record

**Media releases** • My Health Record

[ACT consumers can now access diagnostic imaging reports in their My Health
Record](/newsroom/media-releases/recent-media-releases/act-consumers-can-now-
access-diagnostic-imaging-reports-in-their-my-health-record)

25 May 2021

### Technology brings better health care to one of the most remote communities
in the world

**Media releases** • Telehealth

[Technology brings better health care to one of the most remote communities in
the world ](/newsroom/media-releases/recent-media-releases/technology-brings-
better-health-care-to-one-of-the-most-remote-communities-in-the-world)

## Pagination

  *   * 1
  * [2](?page=1)
  * [3](?page=2)
  * [4](?page=3)
  * [Next](?page=1)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

