Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * [Newsroom](/newsroom)
  * Digital Bytes 

![Digital Bytes
illustration](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/CSR-1823%20ADHA%20Website_Digital%20Bytes%20Illustration.png?h=d45b70e4&itok=6srIBP3N)

##  Digital Bytes

Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations
and leaders.

Search within this section

Topics  \- Any -ConsultationCyber securityEnhanced Models of
CareInnovationMedicines SafetyNational Clinical Terminology
ServicePartnershipsSecure messagingSpecialistsWorkforce and
educationElectronic prescriptionsMy Health RecordTelehealthTraining and
support

4 November 2022

### Why timely access to health information is crucial

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Why timely access to health information is crucial](/newsroom/digital-
bytes/why-timely-access-to-health-information-is-crucial)

21 October 2022

### Why is it important to keep breast screening information to-date?

**Digital Bytes** • General

[Why is it important to keep breast screening information to-
date?](/newsroom/digital-bytes/why-is-it-important-to-keep-breast-screening-
information-to-date)

11 October 2022

### What is pathology? with Dr Caitlin Keighley

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[What is pathology? with Dr Caitlin Keighley](/newsroom/digital-bytes/what-is-
pathology-with-dr-caitlin-keighley)

16 September 2022

### Dr Lawrie Bott discusses the importance of early diagnosis

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Dr Lawrie Bott discusses the importance of early
diagnosis](/newsroom/digital-bytes/dr-lawrie-bott-discusses-the-importance-of-
early-diagnosis)

15 September 2022

### Improving patient care through digital health

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Improving patient care through digital health](/newsroom/digital-
bytes/improving-patient-care-through-digital-health)

15 September 2022

### The importance of pathology in healthcare

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[The importance of pathology in healthcare](/newsroom/digital-bytes/the-
importance-of-pathology-in-healthcare)

9 May 2022

### Dr Amandeep Hansra on Vision Australia Radio

**Digital Bytes** • General

[Dr Amandeep Hansra on Vision Australia Radio](/newsroom/digital-bytes/dr-
amandeep-hansra-on-vision-australia-radio)

17 December 2021

### Digital Bytes with Dr Nicolette Roux

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Digital Bytes with Dr Nicolette Roux](/newsroom/digital-bytes/digital-bytes-
with-dr-nicolette-roux)

21 September 2021

### Digital Bytes with Maria Benke - Audiologist

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Digital Bytes with Maria Benke - Audiologist](/newsroom/digital-
bytes/digital-bytes-with-maria-benke-audiologist)

20 September 2021

### Digital Bytes with Dr Elizabeth Deveny - The National Digital Health
Strategy

**Digital Bytes** • General

[Digital Bytes with Dr Elizabeth Deveny - The National Digital Health
Strategy](/newsroom/digital-bytes/digital-bytes-with-dr-elizabeth-deveny-the-
national-digital-health-strategy)

19 July 2021

### Digital Bytes with Dr Jason King - Digital health tools

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Digital Bytes with Dr Jason King - Digital health tools](/newsroom/digital-
bytes/digital-bytes-with-dr-jason-king-digital-health-tools)

19 July 2021

### Digital Bytes with Dr Jason King - Empowering communities with digital
health tools

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Digital Bytes with Dr Jason King - Empowering communities with digital health
tools](/newsroom/digital-bytes/digital-bytes-with-dr-jason-king-empowering-
communities-with-digital-health-tools)

19 July 2021

### Digital Bytes with Dr Jason King - Managing important health information
with digital health tools

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Digital Bytes with Dr Jason King - Managing important health information with
digital health tools](/newsroom/digital-bytes/digital-bytes-with-dr-jason-
king-managing-important-health-information-with-digital-health-tools)

9 June 2021

### Digital Bytes with Samantha Kourtis - Electronic prescriptions

**Digital Bytes** • Electronic prescriptions

[Digital Bytes with Samantha Kourtis - Electronic
prescriptions](/newsroom/digital-bytes/digital-bytes-with-samantha-kourtis-
electronic-prescriptions)

7 June 2021

### Digital Bytes with Catherine Bronger - Active Script Lists

**Digital Bytes** • Electronic prescriptions

[Digital Bytes with Catherine Bronger - Active Script
Lists](/newsroom/digital-bytes/digital-bytes-with-catherine-bronger-active-
script-lists)

13 May 2021

### Digital Bytes with Chelsea Felkai - Improving patient care through
technology

**Digital Bytes** • General

[Digital Bytes with Chelsea Felkai - Improving patient care through
technology](/newsroom/digital-bytes/digital-bytes-with-chelsea-felkai-
improving-patient-care-through-technology)

23 March 2021

### Digital Bytes with Craig Cooper - Advance care planning

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Digital Bytes with Craig Cooper - Advance care planning](/newsroom/digital-
bytes/digital-bytes-with-craig-cooper-advance-care-planning)

17 March 2021

### Digital Bytes with Connor McKay - My Health Record in allied health

**Digital Bytes** • My Health Record

[Digital Bytes with Connor McKay - My Health Record in allied
health](/newsroom/digital-bytes/digital-bytes-with-connor-mckay-my-health-
record-in-allied-health)

## Pagination

  *   * 1
  * [2](?page=1)
  * [3](?page=2)
  * [Next](?page=1)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

