Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/initiatives-and-programs)
  * Cyber security 

![A doctor having a telehealth consultation with a patient
](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/Emerald%20COE%20DSC00496-2_altered.jpg?h=9dd951d5&itok=rPBJCBJK)

#  Cyber security

Keep your health information private and secure.

### Are you a healthcare provider?

[Cyber security for healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers/cyber-
security/cyber-security-fundamentals "Cyber security fundamentals")

### Resources

Cyber Security Strategy

  * [View our Cyber Security Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/cyber-security-strategy)

Fact sheets

  * [Passwords (PDF, 451.32 KB)](/sites/default/files/2020-11/Passwords-Supporting_a_positive_security_culture.pdf)
  * [Manage your digital footprint (PDF, 524.33 KB)](/sites/default/files/2020-11/Manage_your_digital_footprint.pdf)

Events and webinars

  * [Stay up to date with the latest events and webinars from the agency.](/healthcare-providers/webinars)

Additional resources

  * [Australian Cyber Security Centre for individuals & families](https://www.cyber.gov.au/acsc/individuals-and-families)
  * [Report a cyber-crime](https://www.cyber.gov.au/acsc/report)
  * [Scamwatch](https://www.scamwatch.gov.au/)
  * [IDCARE](https://www.idcare.org/)

### Contact us

####  **General enquiries**

Phone: [1300 901 001](tel:1300%20901%20001)  
8am - 5pm (AEST/AEDT)Monday - Friday  
Email: [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-
protection#630b060f1323070a040a17020f0b06020f170b4d040c154d0216)

[More information](/support/contact-us "Contact us")

## Why is cyber security important?

Did you know that your health information can be even more attractive to cyber
criminals than your financial details?

You can take a few simple steps to stay private and safe when you’re online.
These steps include using passwords that are hard to crack, keeping your
software up to date and staying aware that your online activity can leave a
footprint.

## How is your health information kept safe?

Our Cyber Security team works with the healthcare sector to help identify ways
to keep their information secure.

To keep Australia ahead of possible security threats, our Cyber Security team
provides information and guidance for both individuals and the healthcare
sector.

## Learn more about being secure online

  * [Australian Cyber Security Centre for individuals & families ](https://www.cyber.gov.au/acsc/individuals-and-families)
  * [Report a cyber-crime](https://www.cyber.gov.au/acsc/report)
  * [Scamwatch](https://www.scamwatch.gov.au/)
  * [IDCARE](https://www.idcare.org/)

## How to stay private and secure online

  * Digital footprint
  * Passwords
  * My Health Record

## Digital footprint

As you move around the internet or use your digital devices, you leave behind
a trail of information. This is called your digital footprint. It includes
browsing, paying online, and what you share on social media.

It’s possible to manage your digital footprint. You can do this by finding out
what information exists about you online. This means you can use the Internet
more safely.

[Download and follow these simple steps to control your digital footprint
(PDF, 553.38
KB)](/sites/default/files/2020-11/Manage_your_digital_footprint.pdf
"Manage_your_digital_footprint.pdf")

  * Think before you post
  * Find your digital footprint
  * Decide what to update or remove
  * Check your privacy settings
  * Follow the [password advice](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security#passwords)
  * Clear your browsing history

## Passwords

Your passwords are the key to all your information. They’re the first line of
defence for anything you sign in to, for both your work and personal lives.

The passwords you choose are important. Ideally, they should be long and
complex – making them hard for cyber criminals to crack. And don’t forget to
use a different password for each account.

[Download this fact sheet for more ways to protect your privacy and security
using passwords (PDF, 467.51 KB)](/sites/default/files/2020-11/Passwords-
Supporting_a_positive_security_culture.pdf "Passwords-
Supporting_a_positive_security_culture.pdf")

  * Use upper, lower case, numbers and special characters
  * Passphrases are harder to crack
  * Don’t use well-known or easy to guess passwords
  * Password managers can store multiple passwords
  * Multi-factor authentication uses more than just a password

## My Health Record

My Health Record is protected by a firewall, secure sign in process, audit
logging and Australian Government legislation. You can also help to maintain
the security on your account.

Strong passwords, up-to-date software, and checking privacy settings on your
accounts and devices are all good ways to keep your information safe. And if
you’re worried about the information others might be able to see on My Health
Record, you can set your own privacy and access controls there too.

[Get more tips on how to protect your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-
health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access "Privacy and access")

  * Use a strong passphrase and secret question
  * Review your My Health Record access log
  * Always manually enter your sign in details
  * Don’t click on links in emails to sign in
  * Set strong privacy settings on your accounts and devices
  * Turn on automatic software updates

### Did you find this page helpful?

Yes No

Feedback (required)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

