Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Initiatives and programs](/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Home](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [What's inside?](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside)
  * Incorrect or missing information 

# Incorrect or missing information

### [Initiatives and programs](/initiatives-and-programs)

  * Open/Close Menu[My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * Open/Close Menu[What's inside?](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside)
      * Open/Close Menu[Information you can add](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-can-add)
        * [Achievement diary](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-can-add/achievement-diary)
        * [Growth charts](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-can-add/growth-charts)
        * [Health check schedule and questionnaires](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-can-add/health-check-schedule-and-questionnaires)
        * [Personal health notes](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-can-add/personal-health-notes)
        * [Personal health summaries](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-can-add/personal-health-summaries)
      * Open/Close Menu[Information healthcare providers can upload](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload)
        * [Diagnostic imaging reports](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/diagnostic-imaging-reports)
        * [Discharge summaries](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/discharge-summaries)
        * [e-Referrals](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/e-referrals)
        * [Event summaries](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/event-summaries)
        * [Immunisations](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/immunisations)
        * [Pathology reports](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/pathology-reports)
        * [Pharmacist shared medicines list (PSML)](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/pharmacist-shared-medicines-list-psml)
        * [Prescription and dispense records](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/prescription-and-dispense-records)
        * [Shared health summaries](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/shared-health-summaries)
        * [Specialist letters](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/specialist-letters)
      * [Medicare information](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/medicare-information)
      * [Allergies, medicines, adverse reactions](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/allergies-medicines-adverse-reactions)
      * [Incorrect or missing information](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
      * [Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
      * [Compatible browsers](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/compatible-browsers)
      * Open/Close Menu[Advance care planning](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/advance-care-planning)
        * [Goals of care document](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/advance-care-planning/goals-of-care-document)
        * [Advance care document custodian](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/advance-care-planning/advance-care-document-custodian)
      * [Your COVID-19 information in one place](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * Open/Close Menu[Getting started](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started)
      * [Set up your record online](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online)
      * [Set up a record via a printable application form](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-via-a-printable-application-form)
      * [Access or create a child's record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/access-or-create-a-childs-record)
      * [Set up a record without Medicare or DVA benefits](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
      * Open/Close Menu[Authorised representatives](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/authorised-representatives)
        * [Manage a dependantâ€™s My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/authorised-representatives/manage-a-dependants-my-health-record)
      * [Take control of your existing My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/take-control-of-your-existing-my-health-record)
    * Open/Close Menu[Manage your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record)
      * Open/Close Menu[Profile and settings](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/profile-and-settings)
        * [View and update profile details](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/profile-and-settings/view-and-update-profile-details)
        * [Emergency contacts](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/profile-and-settings/emergency-contacts)
        * [Notification settings](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/profile-and-settings/notification-settings)
        * [Medicare information settings](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/profile-and-settings/medicare-information-settings)
        * [Cancelling a record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/profile-and-settings/cancelling-a-record)
      * [View My Health Record using an app](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
      * Open/Close Menu[Privacy and access](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access)
        * [Access history](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/access-history)
        * [Emergency access](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/emergency-access)
        * [Restrict access to your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/restrict-access-to-your-record)
        * [Restrict access to documents in your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/restrict-access-to-documents-in-your-record)
        * [Hide or remove documents from a record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/hide-or-remove-documents-from-a-record)
        * [Changing restricted access](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/changing-restricted-access)
        * [Nominated representatives](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/nominated-representatives)
        * [Secondary use of data](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/secondary-use-of-data)
        * [My Health Record system security](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/my-health-record-system-security)
        * [My Health Record suspension](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/my-health-record-suspension)
        * [Family and domestic violence](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/family-and-domestic-violence)
    * Open/Close Menu[Which organisations use My Health Record?](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/which-organisations-use-my-health-record)
      * [Pathology and diagnostic imaging providers uploading to My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/pathology-and-diagnostic-imaging-providers-uploading-to-my-health-record)
      * [Hospitals using the My Health Record system](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/which-organisations-use-my-health-record/hospitals-using-the-my-health-record-system)
    * [Statistics](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/statistics)

### Support and other contact information available to you

In the unlikely event that incorrect information is uploaded to your record,
or that information is missing - there are steps you can take to check that
the information stored in your record is correct.

## Incorrect information

If you find incorrect information in your record, **please contact us as soon
as possible on[1800 723 471](tel:1800 723 471) (option 1).** You can also
[remove the document from your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/hide-or-remove-documents-from-a-
record "Hide or remove documents from a record").

If the incorrect information is in a document from a healthcare provider (e.g.
your GP), you should ask them to correct this.

## Missing information

The first time you access your record, there may be little or no information
in it.

If information is missing from your record, first check that your healthcare
provider is connected and able to upload documents to the My Health Record
system. If they are, ask them to upload the document to your record.

Note that if your healthcare provider is not yet connected to the My Health
Record system, they wonâ€™t be able to access your record or upload documents.

### Missing or incomplete immunisation details

If the information in your **Immunisations** page is empty or seems
incomplete:

  * Check your **Medicare Information Settings** under the **Profile & Settings** tab.
  * Make sure **Yes** is selected for **All information about immunisations recorded on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR).** Selecting **Yes** will also allow your healthcare providers to see your immunisation information.

### Incomplete immunisation history statement

It can take a few days for new vaccinations to show on your immunisation
history statement. If you've recently had a COVID-19 vaccination and it's not
showing on your statement, please check again in a few days.

If it's still not showing after a few days and your vaccination provider has
sent the details to the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR), call the
Australian Immunisation Register general enquiries line on [1800 653
809](tel:1800 653 809) (Monday to Friday 8 am to 5 pm).

## Matching Medicare information

Your personal details recorded in Medicare and those you give to your
healthcare provider need to match so information can be uploaded to My Health
Record.

If your healthcare provider is unable to match your personal details with
those recorded in Medicare, your provider will not be able to access your
record or upload documents.

If your details have changed and you need to update them, contact Medicare
[132 011](tel:132 011) or visit the [Medicare website for more
information.](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-you-update-your-name-
date-birth-or-gender-for-medicare?context=60092 "External link opens new
browser tab")

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ National Provider Portal login ](https://provider.ehealth.gov.au/login.html)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/healthcare-providers/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescribing ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescribing)
  * [ Telehealth ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

Â© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

