Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

![Healthy
family](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2022-06/csr640-emerald-
dsc00001.png?h=9dd951d5&itok=7c_lMUrk)

#  Connecting Australia to a healthier future

The need for a connected healthcare system is greater than ever – one that’s
accessible, progressive and secure.

Digital health has become a vital part of a modern, accessible healthcare
system designed to meet the needs of all Australians.

Find out more about digital health services below.

## Digital health services

[ ![My Health Record - Australian Digital Health
Agency](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2022-06/dsc000069-mhr-
image.png?h=87b035f8&itok=4DfRNKYE)

For everyone

### My Health Record

My Health Record provides you secure access to your key healthcare information
whenever you need it. You can also view your COVID-19 dashboard, including
boosters and test results. Discover My Health Record help and support.

](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)

[
![Photo](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2021-07/EP%20DSC00386.jpg?h=9dd951d5&itok=yuF4CxmT)

For everyone

### Electronic prescriptions

An electronic prescription is a safe and convenient alternative to paper
prescriptions. You can choose to receive an electronic prescription from your
healthcare provider, or you can request for it to be sent to your Active
Script List (ASL).

](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)

[ ![Telehealth
Consultation](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/images/telehealth-
kalgoorlie-00896-002.jpg?h=512ec0c8&itok=4Zsl8cRM)

For everyone

### Telehealth

Telehealth enables you to have a doctor’s consultation from your home via
video call or phone. Get access to healthcare by phone or video call, wherever
you are.

](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)

## The new my health app

### A secure and convenient way to access **My Health Record**

[Discover the app](/myhealth "Discover the app")

Scan to download

## Services

  * [My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record "My Health Record")
  * [Electronic Prescriptions](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions "Electronic prescriptions")
  * [Telehealth](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth "Telehealth")

## COVID-19

  * [Your COVID-19 dashboard](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard "Your COVID-19 information in one place")
  * [Proof of vaccinations](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record "Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record")

## Quick links

  * [My Health Record statistics](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/statistics "Statistics")
  * [Frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-questions "Frequently asked questions")
  * [Contact us](/support/contact-us "Contact us")

## My Health Record

If you take multiple medicines or have regular checkups with healthcare
providers, My Health Record can support you with managing your health
information.

![CoVid SYD
5-00354](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/CoVid%20SYD%205-00354.jpg?h=10d202d3&itok=Y3TqUlbz)

##  What is digital health?

We have one of the best healthcare systems, but there are still opportunities
for improvement. Better use of technology can help improve the healthcare
system for providers and help people live healthier lives, with greater
control and better access to their information.

Progress is being made to connect Australia to better healthcare with [My
Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record "My Health Record"),
[electronic prescriptions](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions
"Electronic prescriptions"), and [telehealth](/initiatives-and-
programs/telehealth "Telehealth").

Watch the video

![Woman and man
photo](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/What%20is%20digital%20health1.jpg?h=e5c03949&itok=qGCHj3Gp)

##  Healthcare that knows and understands you

Having a more complete picture of your health can help your healthcare
providers make more informed decisions about your wellbeing. Through a
connected healthcare system, your doctors can deliver treatment that's safer
and more personalised.

[Discover our initiatives and programs](/initiatives-and-programs "Initiatives
and programs")

![Emerald COE
DSC00260](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/Emerald%20COE%20DSC00260.jpg?h=10d202d3&itok=G8KZENpj)

##  Healthcare for today's challenges

Managing your health isn't always as simple as just popping into a doctor's
practice. For those in regional areas, a check-up may require a day-long car
trip. Digital health is connecting Australia to a healthier future by
connecting you to better healthcare.

[Learn about the National Digital Health Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-
plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National
Digital Health Strategy and Framework for Action")

### [Latest tweets](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

View our [Twitter](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth) feed.

### [Digital Bytes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i1a2OGMGRjA)

Make your wishes known when you cannot speak for yourself. This National
Palliative Care Week, take a moment to upload your advance care planning
documents to My Health Record. [Learn
more](https://adhagov.info/Palliative_Care).

## Asking the big questions

What is an electronic prescription?

###  What is an electronic prescription?

Electronic prescriptions are a convenient alternative to paper prescriptions.
During your consultation your doctor will send your electronic prescription to
you as **** an SMS or an email. So you can focus on your health, not your
filing.

[Learn more about electronic prescriptions](/initiatives-and-
programs/electronic-prescriptions "Electronic prescriptions")

What are the benefits of telehealth?

###  What are the benefits of telehealth?

Whether it’s because of COVID-19, a pounding headache or anxiety, sometimes
you just can't leave the house. Thankfully, you can now chat to many
healthcare providers from the comfort of your couch. To have a telehealth
consultation, all you need to do is make a phone or video call.

[Learn more about telehealth](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth
"Telehealth")

What is My Health Record?

###  What is My Health Record?

Your record is a secure place to store your important health information. You
decide what to add to your record and who can access it – putting you in
control. Best of all, your record is available wherever you go, whenever you
need it. Want to access your record now? You sure can.

[Log in to **m**
**yGov**](https://my.gov.au/LoginServices/main/login?execution=e1s1)

How are people using My Health Record?

###  How are people using My Health Record?

Every day more Australians, doctors, specialists, pharmacists and other
healthcare providers are realising the benefits of securely storing vital
health information in My Health Record. See the latest statistics that show
how people and organisations are using My Health Record.

[Discover more](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/statistics
"Statistics")

How can technology improve my health?

###  How can technology improve my health?

Technology can help you get the healthcare you need, on your terms. For
example, you can chat to a doctor over the phone with a telehealth
consultation. You can get a prescription sent as an SMS or email. And you can
store your vital health information online for access anywhere, any time.

[Learn more about our initiatives and programs](/node/31)

![Media releases
illustration](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2020-11/CSR-1823%20ADHA%20Website_Media%20Releases%20Care%20Thumbnail%20Square_0.png?h=08f7ec11&itok=UikHbWej)

### Media releases

Stay up to date with the latest news and information as well as all our past
media releases.  

[Learn moreabout Media releases](/newsroom/media-releases)

![Podcast
illustration](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2020-11/CSR-1823%20ADHA%20Website_Podcasts%20Illustration%20Thumbnail%20Square_0.png?h=08f7ec11&itok=uoEpGhJJ)

### Podcasts

Listen to our podcast series providing you with the latest information on
digital health from experts in their field.

[Learn moreabout Podcasts](/newsroom/podcasts)

![Newsletters
illustration](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2020-11/CSR-1823%20ADHA%20Website_Newsletters_0.png?h=d45b70e4&itok=qP4-PlU8)

### Newsletters

Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our
newsletter series.

[Learn moreabout Newsletters](/newsroom/newsletters)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

