Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Strategies and plans](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
  * National Digital Health Strategy and Framework for Action 

![NDHS
Illustration](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/CSR-1823%20ADHA%20Website_NDHS%20Illustration.png?h=d45b70e4&itok=pTL2ItDF)

# National Digital Health Strategy and Framework for Action

Australia's National Digital Health Strategy - Safe, Seamless and Secure:
evolving health and care to meet the needs of modern Australia

### [About us](/about-us)

  * Open/Close Menu[Strategies and plans](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [National Digital Health Strategy and Framework for Action](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action)
    * [Corporate plans](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/corporate-plans)
    * [Reflect Reconciliation Action Plan](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/reflect-reconciliation-action-plan)
    * [Leadership Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/leadership-strategy)
    * [Workforce Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/workforce-strategy)
    * [National Digital Health Capability Action Plan](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-capability-action-plan)
    * [Cyber Security Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/cyber-security-strategy)
    * [Assessment framework for mHealth apps](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/assessment-framework-for-mhealth-apps)
    * [Clinical Governance Performance Report](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/clinical-governance-performance-report)
    * [Clinical Governance Framework](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/clinical-governance-framework)
  * Open/Close Menu[Policies, privacy and reporting](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [Procurement, tenders and contracts](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/procurement-tenders-and-contracts)
    * Open/Close Menu[Freedom of Information (FOI)](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi)
      * [Freedom of Information (FOI) disclosure log](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi/foi-disclosure-log)
      * [Information publication scheme (IPS)](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi/information-publication-scheme-ips)
      * [Information Publication Scheme (IPS) Agency Plan](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi/information-publication-scheme-agency-plan)
    * [Public Interest Disclosure](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/public-interest-disclosure)
    * [APS employee census results](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/aps-employee-census-results)
    * [Registers](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/registers)
    * [Interoperability reports](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/interoperability-reports)
    * [Senate Order Reporting](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/senate-order-reporting)
    * [ANAO Performance Audit Implementation Plan Publication](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/anao-performance-audit-implementation-plan-publication)
    * [Reporting fraud](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/reporting-fraud)
    * [Privacy policy](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
    * [Terms of Use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)
    * [My Health Record legislation and governance](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/my-health-record-legislation-and-governance)
    * [Agency s24 Determination](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/agency-s24-determination)
  * Open/Close Menu[Board members and executive team](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [Executive remuneration information](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team/executive-remuneration-information)
    * [Board Advisory Committees](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team/board-advisory-committees)
  * [Digital health advisers](/about-us/digital-health-advisers)
  * [Annual reports](/about-us/annual-reports)
  * [Careers](/careers)
  * [Our websites](/about-us/our-websites)
  * [Accessibility](/about-us/accessibility)

## Where are we now?

Digital information is the bedrock of high quality healthcare. The benefits
for patients are significant and compelling: hospital admissions avoided,
fewer adverse drug events, reduced duplication of tests, better coordination
of care for people with chronic and complex conditions, and better informed
treatment decisions.

> #### Better patient healthcare and health outcomes are possible when you
> have a health infrastructure that can be safely accessed, easily used and
> responsibly shared.

To achieve this, the National Digital Health Strategy is establishing the
foundations for a sustainable health system that constantly improves. It
underpins and coordinates work that is already happening between governments,
healthcare providers, consumers, innovators and the technology industry.

The outcomes you can expect to see are covered by seven high level strategic
priorities or ‘pillars’ of digital health improvements detailed in the
strategy. These outcomes will be delivered to all Australians by 2022,
following the Framework for Action implementation plan.

They will form part of a newly sustainable ecosystem of digital health
technology well into the future.

### How was the National Digital Health Strategy formed?

The National Digital Health Strategy was formed after detailed consultations
with patients, consumers, carers, healthcare professionals, industry,
organisations and innovators. It’s based on evidence of clinical and economic
benefits identified from sources both in Australia and overseas.

The Australian Digital Health Agency is custodian of the strategy, its role
being to evolve national digital health capability by innovating,
collaborating and leading.

[Download the National Digital Health Strategy (PDF, 2.09
MB)](/sites/default/files/2020-11/Australia%27s%20National%20Digital%20Health%20Strategy%20-%20Safe%2C%20seamless%20and%20secure.pdf
"Australia's National Digital Health Strategy - Safe, seamless and secure")

[Download the digital health timeline (PDF, 463.15
KB)](/sites/default/files/2021-03/Digital_health_today_and_the_future_timeline.pdf
"Digital health - Today and the future timeline")

## Framework for Action

The Framework for Action is the implementation plan for the National Digital
Health Strategy. It details who will be doing what and where, in order to help
empower people – and those who care for them – with modern digital services
and products.

[Download the Framework for Action (PDF, 6.46
MB)](/sites/default/files/2020-11/Framework_for_Action.pdf "Framework for
Action")

This will be achieved via 44 activities that have been prioritised for
delivery by 2022 and that were identified during the consultation phase.

The framework promotes collaboration and information sharing, and can guide
organisations looking to align their work to national strategic priorities. It
creates the basis for ongoing dialogue, and will help to realise the strategy
into a truly national, cohesive and integrated digital health system.

The Framework for Action follows six principles:

  1. Supports the seven strategic priorities of the National Digital Health Strategy.
  2. Roles and activities are informed by the strategy consultation phase.
  3. Aligns with strategic national health reform priorities and investments.
  4. Activities leverage national investment, including specifications and standards.
  5. Highlights current and planned activities, and identifies role gaps.
  6. Is iteratively developed over the life of the strategy, to reflect continuing progress.

## Where to next?

### Australia, the future of health is digital

Today, Australians have access to telehealth, electronic prescriptions, My
Health Record and more. What comes next is up to you. The next digital health
strategy will start in 2022 and covers a five-year time frame.

Now’s your chance to discover what Australians have said they want for the
future of digital health. Your input has been invaluable and will help the
Australian Government continue to evolve one of the best healthcare systems in
the world.

[National Digital Health Strategy survey
results](https://nationalstrategy.digitalhealth.gov.au?utm_source=ADHA)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

