Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

![MHR Logo](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2022-03/mhr-banner-
logo-large.png?h=d4f958fe&itok=AbbR6rY5)

##  My Health Record

A safe and secure place to keep your key health information, available to you
and your healthcare providers anytime, including in an emergency.

[Go to My Health Record myGov](https://my.gov.au)

## How can we help you?

![Emerald COE
DSC00740](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2020-11/Emerald%20COE%20DSC00740.jpg?h=10d202d3&itok=Jq5X36ov)

### What's inside

Key health information like immunisations, pathology and diagnostic imaging
reports, prescription and dispensing information, hospital discharge summaries
and more, all in one place.

  * [See what's inside](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside)

![Bendigo Aged Care
DSC00273](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2020-11/Bendigo%20Aged%20Care%20DSC00273.jpg?h=10d202d3&itok=GpEMzgqg)

### Getting started

If you don’t already have a My Health Record, you can register for one at any
time. Set up your record:

  * [Set up your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online)
  * [Access or create a child's record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/access-or-create-a-childs-record)
  * [Authorised representatives](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/authorised-representatives)

![My Health Record - Australian Digital Health
Agency](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2022-06/dsc000069-mhr-
image.png?h=87b035f8&itok=4DfRNKYE)

### Manage your record

You're always in control of your record. You can update your settings at any
time, and decide what you'd like to store.

  * [Profile and settings](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/profile-and-settings)
  * [View your record using an app](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)

![Woman on
phone](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2021-05/Healthi-00824.jpg?h=0ed35672&itok=vRRdmYxY)

### Privacy and access

How to manage access to your record.

  * [Privacy and access](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access)

![Aged
care](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2022-03/aged_care.png?h=af3af2b1&itok=lmn2rDWg)

### Organisations

See which organisations are able to upload records.

  * [Pathology and diagnostic imaging](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/pathology-and-diagnostic-imaging-providers-uploading-to-my-health-record)
  * [Hospitals](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/which-organisations-use-my-health-record/hospitals-using-the-my-health-record-system)

![Photo:
pathologists](/sites/default/files/styles/card_rectangle/public/2021-09/covid-
syd-1-00190.jpeg?h=9dd951d5&itok=HtSLgNKG)

### COVID-19

  * [Your COVID-19 information](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
  * [Proof of vaccinations](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)

## The new my health app

### A secure and convenient way to access **My Health Record**

[Discover the app](/myhealth "Discover the app")

Scan to download

Sign in to My Health Record through myGov:

[Sign in to myGov](https://my.gov.au/en/myaccount/dashboard)

### Support

  * Call **[000](tel:000)** now if you are in immediate danger.
  * Call **[1800 737 732](tel:1800737732)** for 24/7 support and counselling.
  * Call **[1800 723 471](tel:1800723471)** for general enquiries or concerns about My Health Record.

[Family and domestic violence assistance](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/family-and-domestic-violence
"Family and domestic violence")

### My Health Record via myGov

## Your record with you every step of the way

  * Pregnant mums and newborns
  * The early years
  * The teenage years
  * The adult years
  * The golden years

## My Health Record for pregnant mums and newborns

Having your records in one place is invaluable when you have multiple care
providers. Your record can help you and your healthcare providers keep track
of your health information throughout your pregnancy and beyond.

You can also [register your newborn for their record](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/getting-started/access-or-create-a-childs-record
"Access or create a child's record"), so you can monitor their growth and
development. It's just like a baby book, but instead of cute photos, there’s a
picture of their health.

You can add the following to your child's record:

  * [achievement diary](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-can-add/achievement-diary "Achievement diary")
  * [growth charts](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-can-add/growth-charts "Growth charts")
  * [health check schedule and questionnaires](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-can-add/health-check-schedule-and-questionnaires "Health check schedule and questionnaires")

![Photo: pregnant mum having an
ultrasound](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/2021-08/ndhs-
day-4-00665.jpeg?itok=p7_ZHF32)

## My Health Record for children

Key health information can be securely kept in your child's record and
accessed at any time. You can track your child's:

  * growth and milestone developments
  * list any allergies
  * keep track of their medicines

By adding more information, you and your healthcare providers can have a more
complete view of your child's health, which will be invaluable as they grow.

![Photo: child at a
microphone](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/2021-08/ndhs-day-2--
3-card-1-00989.jpeg?itok=tgBQmoJ3)

## My Health Record for teens

If you are 14 years or older, you are responsible for managing your own My
Health Record.

If you had a My Health Record before turning 14, it may have been managed by
an authorised representative such as a parent(s) or guardian.

When you turn 14, your authorised representative(s) and nominated
representative(s) are removed from your record. This means they will no longer
manage your record and will not have access to your record from their myGov
account.

## When you turn 14, you can:

  * [take control of your existing record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/take-control-of-your-existing-my-health-record "Take control of your existing My Health Record")
  * [register for your own My Health Record if you don’t already have one](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online "Set up your record online")
  * [nominate your parents or someone you trust to help manage your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/nominated-representatives "Nominated representatives")
  * [cancel your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/profile-and-settings/cancelling-a-record "Cancelling a record").

## Need help?  
Call us 24/7 on 1800 723 471

![Teenager](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/2020-10/Emerald%20COE%20DSC00042.jpg?itok=a4iN-3tQ)

## My Health Record for adults

Your record brings together health information from you, your healthcare
providers and Medicare. This can include details of your medical conditions
and treatments, medicine details; including bush medicines and supplements you
may take, allergies, and test or scan results uploaded, all in one place.

Healthcare providers like doctors, specialists and hospital staff may also be
able to see your record when they need to, including in an accident or
emergency.

[Find out more about what's in your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-
health-record/whats-inside "What's inside?").

![Photo: two Indigenous men with spears by the
beach](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/2021-09/cairns-
community-1-00649.jpeg?itok=g51Or-XM)

## My Health Record during the golden years

Your information is available wherever you go so you don’t need to remember
test dates, medicine names or dosages, or carry documents with you. It gives
healthcare providers a more complete picture of your overall health, and in an
emergency, your record can be the lifesaving voice that speaks for you if you
can’t.​​​​​​

![Photo: woman and man having
tea](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/2021-09/bendigo-aged-care-
dsc00368.jpg?itok=TLoKoNzD)

### Who can help you manage your record?

Information can be added to you record by your healthcare providers, Medicare,
yourself and key people that you trust. You can also invite a trusted person
to become an [authorised representative](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/getting-started/authorised-representatives "Authorised
representatives") to view or access your record.

Healthcare providers can access and upload your important health information
including:

  * [X-ray reports](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/diagnostic-imaging-reports "Diagnostic imaging reports")
  * [medicines information](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/pharmacist-shared-medicines-list-psml "Pharmacist shared medicines list \(PSML\)")
  * [specialist letters](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/specialist-letters "Specialist letters")
  * [pathology reports](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-healthcare-providers-can-upload/pathology-reports "Pathology reports")

### Advance care planning and goals of care​​

##### Have your say on your care and make sure your wishes are taken into
consideration

It's important that your family know your preferences, that carers, doctors
and nurses are informed and clear on your health and care wishes. If you're
ever in an emergency or unable to communicate, having this information
available means it can be easily accessed in a timely way.

[See how to add an advance care plan or goals of care document to your
record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/advance-care-
planning "Advance care planning")

![](/sites/default/files/styles/herosearch/public/2022-07/ndhs-
page-000315.jpg?h=20ad9397&itok=A12O2Ci-)

Search for helpful information about My Health Record

# Search

Search

#### Service availability:

There is currently no scheduled outage to the My Health Record system.

## Popular links

### Set up your record online

[Set up your record online](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online)

### Your COVID-19 information in one place

[Your COVID-19 information in one place](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/covid-19-dashboard)

### Frequently asked questions

[Frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-questions)

### Statistics

[Statistics](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/statistics)

### Did you find this page helpful?

Yes No

Feedback (required)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ National Provider Portal login ](https://provider.ehealth.gov.au/login.html)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/healthcare-providers/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescribing ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescribing)
  * [ Telehealth ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

