Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * my health app 

## A secure and convenient way to access My Health Record on your mobile

### Download the new my health app today

[![Apple App Store](/sites/default/files/images/app-app-
store.png)](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/my-health-gov/id1596846961)

[![Google Play](/sites/default/files/images/app-google-
play.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=au.gov.digitalhealth.myhealth)

### Quick links

Get started with **my health**

Explore **my health**

Download

Need some help?

Frequently asked questions

#### my health lets you view key health information that you, your healthcare
providers or representatives have uploaded to My Health Record.

#### It’s fast, easy, and secure - and you can access and share it all from
the palm of your hand.

## Get started with my health

### Before you can begin you'll need:

  1. a myGov account already linked to My Health Record _**and**_
  2. to have accessed My Health Record at least once through a web browser

There is help on the [steps needed to link My Health Record](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online "Set up
your record online").

### Then follow these simple steps:

  1. Download my health from your app store. Use the links below or search for "my health gov" in the Apple App Store or Google Play Store.
  2. Open the app, select Get Started and follow the prompts.
  3. Start exploring!

## Explore my health

  * View your medical history
  * Check pathology results, including Covid-19
  * Manage vaccinations & immunisations
  * Track allergies & reactions
  * View hospital discharge summaries
  * Keep track of care planning documents
  * View multiple records, yours & your family's
  * View medicine information

![my health app medical
history](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/myhealthappmedicalhistory_0.png?itok=pAHFK21N)

![my health app pathology
report](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/myhealthappcovidcdadoc_1.png?itok=KxA-
ihkX)

![my health app vaccinations and
immunisations](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/myhealthappimmunisations.png?itok=oXVT7bgr)

![my health app
allergies](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/myhealthappallergies_1.png?itok=Ta4whI5B)

![my health app discharge
summary](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/myhealthappjaydendischargesummary_0.png?itok=EpmSHD_h)

![my health app advance care planning
documents](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/myhealthappbiancaadvcareplandoc_0.png?itok=bqW7hl-y)

![my health app switch
records](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/myhealthappswitchrecord_1.png?itok=VhNvP8_I)

![my health app
medicines](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/myhealthmedicines_0_0.png?itok=-wPyB4FP)

## Download my health today

Scan to download

[![Apple App Store](/sites/default/files/images/app-app-
store.png)](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/my-health-gov/id1596846961)

[![Google Play](/sites/default/files/images/app-google-
play.png)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=au.gov.digitalhealth.myhealth)

## Need some help?

## Check out our video guides

  * What's in the my health app?
  * Finding COVID-19 test results
  * How to use the medical history timeline

Check out our eLearning modules for **my health** :

[Learn more](https://training.digitalhealth.gov.au/mod/page/view.php?id=1035)

Check out our eLearning modules for **my health** :

[Learn more](https://training.digitalhealth.gov.au/mod/page/view.php?id=1035)

Check out our eLearning modules for **my health** :

[Learn more](https://training.digitalhealth.gov.au/mod/page/view.php?id=1035)

## Support

  * Call **[000](tel:000)** now if you are in immediate danger.
  * Call **[1800 737 732](tel:1800737732)** for 24/7 support and counselling.
  * Call **[1800 737 471](tel:1800737471)** for general enquiries or concerns about My Health Record.

 **[Family and domestic violence assistance](/initiatives-and-programs/my-
health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/family-and-domestic-
violence "Family and domestic violence")**

## Contact us

If you need help with **my health** :

  * Call the Helpline on **[1800 723 471](tel:1800723471)** (Option 1).

Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## Frequently asked questions

#### **What information is available on** my health

The information you see depends on what your healthcare providers have
uploaded to My Health Record. If you think something is missing, ask your
healthcare provider to upload it to My Health Record. It will then be
available to you in **my health**.

You cannot currently add information yourself in **my health**. If you want to
add information, such as allergies, or emergency contact details, you can add
this in My Health Record (through your myGov account). This information should
then show in the app.

You will need to set up access in your own My Health Record so that you can
see family members records and any other records you have access to.

#### **Are all the features on My Health Record available in the app?**

**my health** provides easy access to key health information once it has been
uploaded to My Health Record including:

  * medicine information history
  * pathology results, including COVID-19 test results
  * proof of vaccination history and upcoming immunisations
  * allergy and reactions information
  * hospital discharge summaries
  * advance care planning documents 

In order to update personal health summary information, emergency contact
details, upload Advance Care Planning document and manage authorised and
nominated representative, you should use the My Health Record portal via
myGov.

#### **Can I view information in** my health **without an internet
connection?**

You will need an internet connection to install, set up and access **my
health** on your mobile device. If you do not have Wi-Fi or mobile data
available, you will receive an error message.

#### **How do nominated and authorised representatives work in** my health
**?**

##### Can a carer access my health?

If users are an authorised representative or a nominated representative for
another person with a My Health Record, they can access that person’s health
information via their own login to the app.

##### Can parents or guardians access their children’s details via my health?

If you are an authorised representative (such as a parent, guardian, or carer)
or a nominated representative for another person with a My Health Record, you
can access that person’s health information via the app.

When a My Health Record is created for a child, one or both parents are
usually set up as an authorised representative. If you are an authorised
representative in My Health Record for your child or a dependant, you can
access their health information in My Health Record through the app using your
own app login.

#### **What security features are there in** my health **?**

**my health** has been built with your security in mind. Set up a secure
6-digit PIN in addition to your device’s security. You can change your PIN in
the account page of the app.

If you know or suspect your PIN has been compromised, or if you have any other
concerns about the security of your **my health** app, you should change your
PIN immediately.

**my health** will automatically log you out of the app if you haven’t used it
for 5 minutes.

You can read more in the my health [privacy policy](/myhealth/privacy "‘my
health’ privacy policy").

#### Android devices

**my health** aims to provide the highest level security for your health
information.

Android does not currently recognise face recognition as the highest level of
security, so you cannot use it to access **my health**. For Android OS version
9, you will be prompted to add a PIN when you first use the **my health** app.

For later versions of Android OS, you will be asked to enter your
PIN/Pattern/Password. You can also set an additional PIN for extra security.

Fingerprints are recognised as the highest-level security for Android OS
version 10 and above, but not for Android OS 9.

If you’re using Android OS version 10 and above, you can use Fingerprints to
access **my health**. You can also set an additional PIN for extra security.
If you’re using Android OS version 9, you cannot use Fingerprints. You will be
prompted to add a PIN when you first use the **my health** app.

#### **How do I change my PIN?**

When you’re logged into your account, chose ‘Account’ on the bottom menu.
Then, click ‘Manage Pin’ and navigate to ‘Change PIN’ to reset your pin.

#### **How accessible is** my health **?**

We want everyone to be able to use and access the **my health** app easily and
experience the benefits it provides to their healthcare. This includes people
with disabilities.

**What are we doing?**

To help us make **my health** app a positive experience for everyone, we use
the [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)
2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/). These guidelines explain how to make web
content more accessible for people with disabilities, and user friendly for
everyone.

The guidelines have three levels of accessibility (A, AA and AAA). The **my
health** app aims to achieve level AA. This is also the standard set by The
Australian Government Digital Transformation Agency in its [Digital Service
Standard](https://www.dta.gov.au/help-and-advice/about-digital-service-
standard).

**How are we doing it?**

The Australian Digital Health Agency has a robust accessibility assurance
process which includes:

  * WCAG 2.1 Level AA conformance reviews throughout the software design and delivery processes
  * Accessibility audits by external accessibility specialist including testing by people with disabilities
  * Several rounds of usability testing that always includes wide range of abilities

The Australian Digital Health Agency relies on these three assurance processes
to determine the current accessibility level of the **my health** app.

**Current accessibility status**

Not all information in the **my health** app conforms to WCAG 2.1 Level AA
yet. For example, information supplied by third party like healthcare
providers may not meet our level of accessibility.

We monitor the **my health** app regularly to maintain this level of
accessibility. If you have any issues using the **my health** app, you can
[contact us](/node/65#mhr-enquiries).

#### **I’m having an issue logging in to my health for the first time**

This may be because you haven’t linked My Health Record with myGov. You will
also need to access My Health Record via a desktop or mobile browser at least
once.

Please follow all 3 steps to [set up your record online](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online
"https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online").

#### **Which operating system is required to run my health app?**

my health is designed to work on all mobile devices running the Android
operating system version 9 and up, and iOS operating system version 15 and up.

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of google LLC.  
Apple, and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc.  
App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

