Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * [About us](/about-us)
  * Our websites 

![Our Websites
Illustration](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2020-11/CSR-1823%20ADHA%20Website_Websites%20Illustration.png?h=d45b70e4&itok=oWlg-C5f)

# Our websites

Digital health is about using technology to help maintain or improve an
individual's health and wellbeing. We operate several digital channels that
host specific information about individual areas.

### [About us](/about-us)

  * Open/Close Menu[Strategies and plans](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [National Digital Health Strategy and Framework for Action](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action)
    * [Corporate plans](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/corporate-plans)
    * [Reflect Reconciliation Action Plan](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/reflect-reconciliation-action-plan)
    * [Leadership Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/leadership-strategy)
    * [Workforce Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/workforce-strategy)
    * [National Digital Health Capability Action Plan](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-capability-action-plan)
    * [Cyber Security Strategy](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/cyber-security-strategy)
    * [Assessment framework for mHealth apps](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/assessment-framework-for-mhealth-apps)
    * [Clinical Governance Performance Report](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/clinical-governance-performance-report)
    * [Clinical Governance Framework](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/clinical-governance-framework)
  * Open/Close Menu[Policies, privacy and reporting](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [Procurement, tenders and contracts](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/procurement-tenders-and-contracts)
    * Open/Close Menu[Freedom of Information (FOI)](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi)
      * [Freedom of Information (FOI) disclosure log](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi/foi-disclosure-log)
      * [Information publication scheme (IPS)](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi/information-publication-scheme-ips)
      * [Information Publication Scheme (IPS) Agency Plan](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi/information-publication-scheme-agency-plan)
    * [Public Interest Disclosure](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/public-interest-disclosure)
    * [APS employee census results](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/aps-employee-census-results)
    * [Registers](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/registers)
    * [Interoperability reports](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/interoperability-reports)
    * [Senate Order Reporting](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/senate-order-reporting)
    * [ANAO Performance Audit Implementation Plan Publication](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/anao-performance-audit-implementation-plan-publication)
    * [Reporting fraud](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/reporting-fraud)
    * [Privacy policy](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
    * [Terms of Use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)
    * [My Health Record legislation and governance](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/my-health-record-legislation-and-governance)
    * [Agency s24 Determination](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/agency-s24-determination)
  * Open/Close Menu[Board members and executive team](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [Executive remuneration information](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team/executive-remuneration-information)
    * [Board Advisory Committees](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team/board-advisory-committees)
  * [Digital health advisers](/about-us/digital-health-advisers)
  * [Annual reports](/about-us/annual-reports)
  * [Careers](/careers)
  * [Our websites](/about-us/our-websites)
  * [Accessibility](/about-us/accessibility)

## Developer Centre

The Developer Centre is single point of reference for all resources and
specifications relating to Australian digital health development. Users can
access resources, browse for new events as well as read about the latest
releases and developments in digital health.

[Go to the Developer Centre](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)

## Online training

Accredited, self-paced training for healthcare providers.

[Get online training](https://training.digitalhealth.gov.au/)

## Namespace Registration

Namespace site for Australian Digital Health Agency specifications and non-
Australian Digital Health Agency specifications (most notably some of the
specifications from Standards Australia IT-014).

[Visit Namespace](https://namespaces.digitalhealth.gov.au/)

## National Clinical Terminology Service (NCTS)

Operated by us, the NCTS is responsible for managing, developing and
distributing national clinical terminologies and related tools and services to
support the digital health requirements of the Australian healthcare
community.

[Go to the National Clinical Terminology
Service](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## National Digital Health Strategy

How would you change healthcare in Australia? Your valuable input into the
digital health strategy will help continue to evolve one of the best
healthcare systems. Have your say.

[Go to the National Digital Health
Strategy](https://nationalstrategy.digitalhealth.gov.au/)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

