Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Initiatives and programs](/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Home](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [Manage your record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record)
  * View My Health Record using an app 

# View My Health Record using an app

You can securely view health information in your record through an app. You
can also access your proof of vaccination and immunisation history.

### Quick facts

What's the difference between 'access' and 'viewing access'?

Apps connected to the My Health Record system give you secure **‘view only’**
access to your record. When accessing your record through myGov, you can
manage and update your record.

What to do if you think information is missing

If there are documents missing that you think should be there, ask your doctor
to upload them.

[Find out what to do if immunisation information is missing](/node/1423 "What
to do if information is missing").

### Get in touch

Contact My Health Record Help line: [1800 723 471](tel:1800%C2%A0723 471).  
The Help line is available 24 hours, 7 days a week.  
Free call (call charges apply from mobile phones).

If you need an interpreter, please call [TIS
National](https://www.tisnational.gov.au/) on 131 450.  
For hearing or speech assistance, contact the [National Relay
Service](https://www.communications.gov.au/what-we-do/phone/services-people-
disability/accesshub/national-relay-service) or call 1300 555 727

I don't have a smartphone and internet

If you would like to get proof of your COVID-19 vaccinations as a hardcopy,
you can call the Australian Immunisation Register on [1800 653 809](tel:1800
653 809) (Monday to Friday 8 am to 5 pm) and ask them to send your
immunisation history statement to you. It can take up to 14 days to arrive in
the post.

## Getting started

If you have already set up a My Health Record, you can view information in
your record using a mobile app.

There are 3 apps to choose from:

## Using the new my health app

Access My Health Record information on your mobile via the new **my health**
app.

**my health** is an Agency-owned and managed app, and is the latest digital
tool developed by the Agency to help consumers and their carers engage with
and be proactive in managing their health. Put your health in your hands with
the new **my health** app.

Learn more about [**my health**](/myhealth "my health app")

## Using the healthdirect app

The healthdirect app helps you make informed decisions about your health. It
provides easy access to many user-friendly self-help tools and functions
including a symptom checker, health service finder, medicines information
library, searchable health topics and quick-call health and emergency phone
numbers.

The app also integrates with My Health Record, proving you with an easy way to
access your health record.

### Step 1.

Download the healthdirect app from the [Google
Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=au.org.healthdirect.healthdirectapp&hl=en&gl=US)
or [App Store](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/healthdirect/id1021494621)

![HDA app step 1](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/hda-
app-01.png?itok=bFyDdzz_)

###  
Step 2.

Create a healthdirect account to view your health record

![HDA app step 2](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/hda-
app-02.png?itok=CVh9TmdD)

###  
Step 3.

Provide consent for healthdirect to access your health record by signing-in
with MyGov

![HDA app step 3](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/hda-
app-03.png?itok=xQwwxfol)

###  
Step 4.

View your COVID-19 documents, immunisations, pathology reports and Medicare
items

![HDA app step 4](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/hda-
app-04.png?itok=ZS-PxRt-)

## Using the HealthNow app

#### ​

### Step 1.

Download HealthNow from the [App
Store](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/healthnow/id1171312949) or [Google
Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.telstrahealth.healthnow)
and create your account

![​Step 1. Download HealthNow from the App Store or Google Play and create
your
account](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/2021-03/HealthNow_Step1_0.png?itok=wTHNrI7O)

###  
Step 2.

Check your email to verify your account

![Step 2. Check your email to verify your
account](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/2021-03/HealthNow_Step2.png?itok=dm5xgH1Y)

###  
**Step 3.**

You can now log in

![Step 3. You can now log
in](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/2021-03/HealthNow_Step3.png?itok=rNn7qSI4)

###  
​​​​​Step 4.

'Connect’ to link your record and 'Confirm'

![Step 4. 'Connect' to link your record, by giving your
consent](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/2021-03/HealthNow_Step4.png?itok=l02lcgFp)

###  
Step 5.

Sign in to your myGov account

![Step 5. Sign in to your myGov
account](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/2021-03/HealthNow_Step5.png?itok=J2a66C4r)

###  
Step 6.

Give HealthNow permission to access your record​​

![Step 6. Give HealthNow permission to access your
record](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/2021-03/HealthNow_Step6.png?itok=gwbRn_m5)

###  
Step 7.

You can now view your health information including immunisations on the go

![Step 7. You can now view your health information including immunisations on
the
go](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/2021-03/HealthNow_Step7.png?itok=y7IdBf7t)

######

#### [Go to the App
Store](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/healthnow/id1171312949) [Go to the Google
Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.telstrahealth.healthnow)​​​

Check out our [frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-questions
"Frequently asked questions") about My Health Record and more.

## The new my health app

### A secure and convenient way to access **My Health Record**

[Discover the app](/myhealth "Discover the app")

Scan to download

## Popular links

### Set up your record online

[Set up your record online](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online)

### Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record

[Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-
from-my-health-record)

### Frequently asked questions

[Frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-questions)

### Contact us

[Contact us](/support/contact-us)

### Did you find this page helpful?

Yes No

Feedback (required)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ National Provider Portal login ](https://provider.ehealth.gov.au/login.html)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/healthcare-providers/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescribing ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescribing)
  * [ Telehealth ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

