Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/initiatives-and-programs)
  * Telehealth 

# Telehealth

Get access to healthcare by phone or video call, wherever you are.

[Try a telehealth consultation](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-
health-services)

> ### Between 13 March 2020 and 31 July 2022, 118.2 million telehealth
> services have been delivered to 18 million patients, and more than 95,000
> practitioners have now used telehealth services.
>
> – August 2022

### Try a telehealth consultation

As the world adjusts to the ‘new normal’, more healthcare providers are
turning to technology. Now all Australians, whether it’s those living in rural
or regional areas, a city or country town, can get a telehealth consultation.
All that’s needed to see a healthcare provider is a telephone or a computer
with internet access.

[Try a telehealth consultation](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-
health-services)

### How it works

Book a telehealth consultation

Many doctors and medical centres now offer telehealth consultations. If you
have a preferred healthcare provider, check if they’re set up for telehealth.
If they’re not, you can find a provider that offers telehealth consultations
at [HealthDirect.](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services)

Before your consultation

Get the most out of your consultation by following these tips:

  * make sure your device is charged
  * check that you have a steady internet connection
  * make sure your microphone and camera (if necessary) is working
  * download any apps or set up any software your provider has requested of you
  * find a private, comfortable place to sit where you’ll be able to hear each other clearly
  * choose a place with good lighting so your healthcare provider can see you clearly (if necessary)
  * If you'd like an electronic prescription, remember to check with your pharmacy first

During your consultation

Your doctor will discuss next steps. This may include a follow-up telehealth
consultation or a visit to see a healthcare provider in person.

Getting a prescription during a telehealth consultation

During your consultation, your doctor can send you an electronic prescription
as an alternative to paper via SMS or email. You can then take it to your
pharmacy or send it to them so they can home deliver your medicine.

If you have repeats, a new SMS or email will be sent to you when you get your
medicine. Remember to check that your pharmacy is ready for electronic
prescriptions before your telehealth consultation.

[Learn more about electronic prescriptions.](/initiatives-and-
programs/electronic-prescriptions "Electronic prescriptions")

Protecting your information is important

[Find out how to protect your online information with passphrases and
more.](/healthcare-providers/cyber-security/cyber-security-fundamentals "Cyber
security fundamentals")

## What is telehealth?

Telehealth is having a consultation with a healthcare provider by phone or
video call.

Many GPs, specialists and other healthcare providers now offer a telehealth
consultation when a physical examination isn’t necessary. It’s not intended to
replace essential visits to the doctor, but rather be a convenient solution
when you can’t see a doctor face to face.

If you have seen your regular doctor or medical centre in the last 12 months,
they may be able to bulk-bill your telehealth consultation.

### Kendal keeps in contact with telehealth

After relocating back to her hometown of Emerald to be closer to family - and
hopefully to raise one of her own - Kendal uses digital health services to
stay connected to her specialists.

######

## What are the benefits?

With telehealth, you can see your nurse, doctor, psychologist, surgeon and
other healthcare providers without having to visit them in person. What's
more, if you've seen them in the last 12 months, they may be able to bulk-bill
their service.

#### Healthcare when you can’t leave home

If you’re unwell or need to self-isolate, you can still attend a consultation
virtually. Telehealth consultations are not only convenient, but can also
reduce the spread of illness.

#### Your healthcare providers are closer than ever

Occasionally, Australians living in rural and remote areas need to travel far
to see their healthcare provider. A telehealth consultation can save time by
enabling doctors to consult with their patient by phone or video call.

## Two consultation options

### Phone

Talk to your healthcare provider using your mobile or landline phone.

### Video

Have a video call with your healthcare provider using a device that has a
video platform (this may be specified by your healthcare provider).

![Bendigo Aged Care
DSC00273](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/2020-11/Bendigo%20Aged%20Care%20DSC00273.jpg?itok=1m7SMlXK)

## Try a telehealth consultation

Many doctors and medical centres now offer telehealth consultations. If you
have a preferred healthcare provider, check if they’re set up for telehealth.
If they’re not, you can find a provider that offers telehealth consultations
at [HealthDirect.](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services)

## Popular links

### Try a telehealth consultation

healthdirect.gov.au

[healthdirect.gov.au](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-
services)

### Frequently asked questions

[Frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-questions)

### Electronic prescriptions

[Electronic prescriptions](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)

### My Health Record

[My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)

### Did you find this page helpful?

Yes No

Feedback (required)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

