Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Initiatives and programs](/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Home](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [Getting started](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started)
  * Set up a record without Medicare or DVA benefits 

!['Immunisations'
screenshot](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2021-03/MHR%20without%20Medicare%20details.png?h=9dd951d5&itok=d7Un-
Hb6)

#  Set up a record without Medicare or DVA benefits

If you're not eligible for Medicare or Department of Veteran's Affairs (DVA)
benefits, you can still get My Health Record and access proof of your
vaccinations and other key health information.

### Helpful resources

Forms

  * [Register for a My Health Record (PDF, 554.72 KB)](/sites/default/files/form/register-for-a-my-health-record.pdf)

View your record using an app

If you have a My Health Record and are set up for online access, you have the
option of using a mobile app. Mobile apps are a secure and simple way to
access your details.

[Learn more about accessing your record via a mobile app.](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-
app "View My Health Record using an app")

Set up your record using Medicare details

If you have a Medicare card, you can set up your record online.

[Learn how to set up and access your record online.](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online "Set up
your record online")

### Contact us

#### My Health Record enquiries

Phone: [1800 723 471](tel:1800723471) (select option 1)  
Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week

[More information](/support/contact-us "Contact us")

## Steps to get a My Health Record

Below is a summary of the steps to set up My Health record without Medicare or
DVA benefits. Click each step for more details:

### Step 1. Apply for an individual healthcare identifier (IHI)

How to apply for an individual healthcare identifier (IHI) from Services
Australia, if you don't already have one:

An individual healthcare identifier (IHI) is a number that identifies you for
healthcare purposes and My Health Record.

The quickest way to [get an
IHI](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/individual-
healthcare-identifiers/how-get-ihi) is online using the IHI service through
your [myGov account](https://my.gov.au/).

If you don’t have a myGov account, it’s easy to [create
one](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/online-help/create-mygov-account).

Once you have your IHI, you can:

  * get proof of vaccination through the Individual Healthcare Identifier service in myGov. Find out [how to get proof of vaccination](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof-your-covid-19-vaccinations).
  * register for a My Health Record so you can get proof of vaccination and see other important health information in your record. See step 2 below.

### Step 2. Register for My Health Record with your IHI

We are currently receiving a high number of application forms, and processing
may take up to 6 weeks. We will send you a letter when we have processed your
registration.

You must print and post the registration form and certified copies of identity
documents. You cannot register for My Health Record online or by telephone.

#### 1\. Complete the registration form

**If registering for yourself,** print and complete the [Register for a My
Health Record (PDF, 554.72 KB)](/sites/default/files/form/register-for-a-my-
health-record.pdf "Form - Register for a My Health Record") form.

Complete all questions on the form.

  * Question 6: Write your IHI number provided by Services Australia.
  * Question 7: Write your address as recorded with Medicare, DVA or Healthcare Identifiers Service.
  * Question 9: If you want to see details of your COVID-19 vaccination, ensure that the last box “Do not include details of my vaccinations sourced from the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR)” remains unticked.

Sign and date the form on page 3.

**Identity documents**  
You will need to provide 100 points of identification when you submit the
form. Copies of your identity documents must be certified. The form provides
details about what documents you can provide and who can certify them.

If any of these documents are not in English, you need to provide **certified
copies of both** the

  * original document **and**
  * the English translation of the document.

Copies of foreign language documents without an English translation cannot be
processed.

If you need help with the form, call the Helpline on  
[1800 723 471](tel:1800 723 471) (option 1).

#### 2\. Send the completed signed form and certified copies of identity
documents to:

My Health Record  
GPO Box 9942  
Sydney NSW 2000

Once your application has been processed, you will receive a letter with your
Identity Verification Code. You will need this code to view your record.

### Step 3. Link My Health Record in myGov

This takes about 15 minutes online. Before you can do this, you must complete
both steps above and have your Identity Verification Code from step 2.

There are some additional steps you need to do online before you can view your
record. This helps protect your sensitive health information.

You will need your:

  * Identity Verification Code and
  * individual healthcare identifier (IHI).

  1. Sign in to My Health Record via myGov: [Sign in to myGov](https://my.gov.au/en/myaccount/dashboard)
  2. Select **My profile** and then select **Linked services**.
  3. Select **My Health Record** from the **Link a service** list. Then, select **Link** for My Health Record.
  4. Before you can access My Health Record, you need to verify your identity using your Identity Verification Code. Select **Use my access code** and then click **Continue**. 

![How do you want to link to My Health
Record?](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/mhr_3_screenshot_use_my_access_code.png?itok=dl8rRDBz)

  5. Enter your Identity Verification Code, family name and date of birth, IHI number and click **Next**.  

![Verify your
identity](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/images/identify-
verification-code-or-personal-access-code-002.png?itok=WYaydcSY)

  
If all details are correct, you will see the Welcome message below.  

!['Welcome'
screenshot](/sites/default/files/styles/original/public/2021-03/Welcome_0.png?itok=ipvFtCMU)

  6. Click **Next** through the four pop-up messages.
  7. From the Welcome page, click on your name.

Watch the video below to learn how to find information in your record.

​​​​​Check out our [frequently asked questions](/support/frequently-asked-
questions "Frequently asked questions") on getting proof of your vaccination.

### Did you find this page helpful?

Yes No

Feedback (required)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ National Provider Portal login ](https://provider.ehealth.gov.au/login.html)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/healthcare-providers/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescribing ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescribing)
  * [ Telehealth ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/healthcare-providers/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

