Skip to main content

[ Australian Digital Health Agency ](/) [ Australian Digital Health Agency for
Healthcare Providers ](/healthcare-providers)

Open Search

Open Menu

  * Open/Close Menu [ COVID-19 ](/covid-19-support)
    * [ Your COVID-19 information in one place ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/covid-19-dashboard)
    * [ Get proof of vaccination from My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record)
    * [ What to do if information is missing ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/incorrect-or-missing-information)
    * [ Get a My Health Record without a Medicare or DVA card ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits)
    * [ View My Health Record using an app ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Initiatives ](/initiatives-and-programs#Initiatives)
    * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
    * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
    * [ my health app ](/myhealth)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Programs ](/initiatives-and-programs#Programs)
    * [ Cyber security ](/initiatives-and-programs/cyber-security)
    * [ National Digital Health Strategy ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans/national-digital-health-strategy-and-framework-for-action "National Digital Health Strategy")
  * Open/Close Menu [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
    * [ Media releases ](/newsroom/media-releases)
    * [ Podcasts ](/newsroom/podcasts)
    * [ Newsletters ](/newsroom/newsletters "Find the latest information, news and insights on digital health in our newsletter series.")
    * [ Digital Bytes ](/newsroom/digital-bytes "Get the latest insights and news from key healthcare providers, organisations and leaders.")
    * [ Blogs ](/newsroom/blogs)
  * Open/Close Menu [ Support ](/support "Support")
    * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
    * [ Frequently asked questions ](/support/frequently-asked-questions)
    * [ Subscribe ](/support/subscribe)
    * [ Glossary ](/support/glossary)
    * [ Reporting fraud ](/support/reporting-fraud)
  * Open/Close Menu [ About ](/about-us)
    * [ Strategies and plans ](/about-us/strategies-and-plans)
    * [ Organisational structure ](/about-us/board-members-and-executive-team)
    * [ Policies, privacy and reporting ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting)
    * [ Annual reports ](/about-us/annual-reports)
    * [ Our websites ](/about-us/our-websites)
    * [ Careers ](/careers)

Search

  * [For everyone](/)
  * [For healthcare providers](/healthcare-providers)
  * [For mhr everybody](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [For mhr hcp](/node/1688)
  * [For ndhs](/ndhs)

  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ My Health Record (myGov) ](https://my.gov.au)

## Breadcrumb

  * [Home](/)
  * [Support](/support)
  * Frequently asked questions 

![Photo: patient showing doctor
phone](/sites/default/files/styles/hero_1_up/public/2021-06/My%20Apps%20Day%201-00353.jpg?h=a8efb6d2&itok=Mfv-
kd1l)

#  Frequently asked questions

Find the answers to commonly asked questions about My Health Record and more.

### I'm looking for information about:

  * Linking My Health Record in myGov
  * Recognising and avoiding fake vaccine certificates
  * Getting proof of my COVID-19 vaccinations
  * Set up and access My Health Record
  * View and edit documents in My Health Record
  * Electronic prescriptions

## Linking My Health Record in myGov

#### I can't link My Health Record from myGov. What should I do?

We use details from Medicare to verify your identity when you link My Health
Record.  
If you have a Medicare online account already linked in myGov, it’s easier to
then link to My Health Record.

#### I have a Medicare online account linked in myGov

If you have a Medicare online account and it is already linked in myGov, you
don’t need to answer any further identity questions when you link to My Health
Record.

Tick 'Use my Medicare identity' when linking your record.

![Medicare online identity
new](/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/2021-10/medicare-
new.png?itok=6MXE1lLv)

#### I don’t have a Medicare online account or don’t want to link it

If you don’t have a Medicare online account or don’t want to link it in myGov,
we will ask about your Medicare details when you link your record. This helps
us verify your identity.

**__** We may ask questions about:

  * your Medicare card
  * bank account details registered with Medicare
  * Medicare claiming history (details of your last visit to your doctor, such as date of visit, location of medical practice, name of your doctor)

**Your answers must match the details stored by Medicare.**

If you’re not sure of these details, you can phone ** __** Medicare on [132
011](tel:132011) (7 days a week, 24 hours a day) before you link to ** __** My
Health Record ** _._**

Medicare can also help you register for a Medicare online account and give you
a linking code to link your myGov account to Medicare.

#### I want to set up a Medicare online account or link it in myGov

If you set up a Medicare online account and link it in myGov first, it will be
easier to then link to My Health Record.

  * [Find out how to set up your Medicare online account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-enrol-and-get-started-medicare/setting-your-medicare-online-account)
  * [Find out how to link your Medicare online account in myGov ](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/online-help/medicare/link-medicare-mygov-your-medicare-card)

#### How do I link My Health Record if I am not eligible for Medicare?

If you applied for a My Health Record and have received your identity
verification code, you need to link your record to your myGov account to
access your record online.

[See step 3 on this page](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-
started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-dva-benefits "Set up a record
without Medicare or DVA benefits") to find out how to link your record in
myGov. ​​​​​​

#### How do I set up and access My Health Record?

You need to link My Health Record in myGov and then verify your identity.
[Find out more.](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-
started/set-up-your-record-online "Set up your record online")

Tip: My Health Record uses details from Medicare to verify your identify. If
you haven’t yet linked Medicare, you can do that first. It will then be easier
to link and access My Health Record.

## Recognising and avoiding fake vaccine certificates

#### What to look for when getting a vaccination certificate

Legitimate vaccine certificates are available free of charge from the
Australian Immunisation Register (AIR), and can be accessed via myGov, My
Health Record or Medicare.

Vaccine certificates from other sources should be treated with suspicion. Be
wary of scammers offering to create fake online vaccination certificates.
Please note that creating or using fake vaccination certificates is a criminal
offence and may attract penalties.

#### Why are vaccination certificates targeted?

Using an online fake vaccination certificate generator carries a significant
risk of sharing private personal information with cyber criminals, who can use
that information for fraud and identity theft. Remember, once you’ve lost
control of your personal information, it is extremely difficult to regain.

#### I now have my digital vaccination certificate, how do I ensure that it
stays secure?

Be sure to use officially sanctioned apps or services to store your digital
vaccination certificate. Your mobile contains valuable personal information,
so be sure to secure it by keeping your operating system and apps up to date.
Run anti-virus scans regularly. Use strong passwords and multi-factor
authentication to prevent unauthorised access.

#### What should I do if I've been scammed?

The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s Scamwatch service can
help if you are concerned that you might have been scammed. Promptly
[reporting your concerns to Scamwatch](https://www.scamwatch.gov.au/report-a-
scam) may help to limit the damage, protect yourself from further loss, and
may help other people as well.

## Getting proof of my COVID-19 vaccinations

[Printable download: Getting proof of your COVID-19 vaccination (PDF, 485.11
KB)](/sites/default/files/documents/getting-proof-of-your-
covid-19-vaccination.pdf "Getting proof of your COVID-19 vaccination")

#### What proof of vaccination documents can I get from My Health Record?

There are two documents available from My Health Record that provide proof of
vaccination:

  * An **immunisation history statement** shows all the immunisations you’ve had that are on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR), including COVID-19 vaccinations.
  * A **COVID-19 digital certificate** shows only your COVID-19 vaccinations. You can get your digital certificate after you’ve had at least one dose of a vaccine approved for use in Australia.

Your vaccination provider must report your vaccination information to the
Australian Immunisation Register before it will show on your immunisation
history statement or COVID-19 digital certificate.

#### How do I get proof of vaccination for someone else?

You can get proof of vaccination for someone else through My Health Record if
you are their [authorised representative](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/getting-started/authorised-representatives/manage-a-dependants-my-
health-record "Follow link") or [nominated representative](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/nominated-
representatives "Follow link").

#### What proof of vaccination do I need to travel overseas?

You may need an International COVID-19 Vaccination Certificate to travel
overseas.

You can get your international certificate online when you’re getting ready to
travel if both of these apply:

  * you have a current Australian passport or foreign passport with an Australian visa
  * you’ve had at least one dose of an [approved COVID-19 vaccine](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-get-your-covid-19-vaccinations?context=60091#a1).

This international certificate is not available from My Health Record. [Find
out how to get your international
certificate](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/what-types-proof-there-
are/international-covid-19-vaccination-certificate-proof
)[.](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-help-
during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/what-types-proof-there-
are/international-covid-19-vaccination-certificate-proof )

#### How do I get my COVID-19 digital certificate or immunisation history
statement?

You can get a COVID-19 digital certificate after you’ve had at least one dose
of a vaccine approved for use in Australia, and the details have been uploaded
to the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR). The digital certificate only
shows COVID-19 vaccines approved for use in Australia.

Your vaccination provider must report your vaccination information to the
Australian Immunisation Register before you can get a COVID-19 digital
certificate.

#### I have a My Health Record

If you already have a My Health Record, you can get your COVID-19 digital
certificate or immunisation history statement from your record.

Find out how to [get proof of vaccination from My Health Record](/initiatives-
and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-
from-my-health-record "Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health
Record").

#### I have Medicare online or the Medicare Express Plus app

If you have a Medicare card, or get a DVA pension or benefit, you can get your
COVID-19 digital certificate or immunisation history statement through
Medicare online (if you have an account) or the Express Plus Medicare mobile
app (to use this app, you need to first link Medicare in your myGov account).

[Find out more about getting proof of vaccination on Services Australia
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof-your-
covid-19-vaccinations ).

#### I’m not eligible for Medicare

If you don’t have a Medicare card, and don’t receive a DVA pension or benefit,
you’ll need to get an individual healthcare identifier (IHI) before you can
get proof of vaccination online. [Find out how to apply for an IHI
online](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/individual-
healthcare-identifiers/how-get-ihi).

Once you have your IHI, you can get your COVID-19 digital certificate or
immunisation history statement through the Individual Healthcare Identifier
service in myGov.

[Find out more about how to get your proof of
vaccination](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof-your-
covid-19-vaccinations  ).

#### I can’t get proof of my COVID-19 vaccination online

If you can’t get proof of your COVID-19 vaccinations online, you can call the
Australian Immunisation Register on [1800 653 809](tel:1800 653 809) (Monday
to Friday 8 am to 5 pm) and ask them to send your immunisation history
statement or your digital certificate. It can take up to 14 days to arrive in
the post.

#### I’ve had a COVID-19 vaccination. Why isn't it on my immunisation history
statement?

It can take a few days for new vaccinations to show on your immunisation
history statement. If you've recently had a COVID-19 vaccination and it's not
showing on your statement, please check again in a few days.

If it's still not showing after a few days and your vaccination provider has
sent the details to the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR), call the
Australian Immunisation Register general enquiries line on [1800 653
809](tel:1800 653 809) (Monday to Friday 8 am to 5 pm).

Your COVID-19 digital certification will be available after you’ve had at
least one dose of a vaccine approved for use in Australia, and the details
have been reported to the AIR.

#### How do I know when my booster is due?

If you are eligible for a COVID-19 booster, you can check the recommended due
date on your COVID-19 vaccination dashboard in My Health Record.

[Find out about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, who they are recommended
for, when you need one and how to get it.
](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)

#### Will my booster dose show in My Health Record?

If you’ve had a booster dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, your vaccination provider
must report the details to the Australian Immunisation Register before it will
show in My Health Record. It will also show on your immunisation history
statement and COVID-19 digital certificate (both available from My Health
Record).

The booster dose details will also show on your COVID-19 vaccination
dashboard, record home and immunisations page in My Health Record.

[Find out about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, who they are recommended
for, when you need one and how to get
it.](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)

#### How do I add my COVID-19 digital certificate to my digital wallet?

You can add your COVID-19 digital certificate to your digital wallet from:

  * My Health Record through myGov
  * Express Plus Medicare mobile app (to use this app, you need to first link Medicare in your myGov account)
  * Medicare online account through myGov 
  * Individual Healthcare Identifiers service (IHI service) through myGov.

Find out how to [add your COVID-19 digital certificate to a digital
wallet.](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/what-types-proof-there-
are/covid-19-digital-certificate-proof)

#### I've had both COVID-19 vaccinations but can’t get my COVID-19 digital
certificate. What can I do?

You can get your digital certificate after you’ve had at least one dose of a
vaccine approved for use in Australia.

Your vaccination provider needs to add all your doses to the Australian
Immunisation Register before you can see your certificate.

Your digital certificate is issued by the Australian Immunisation Register and
made available through various online channels, including your My Health
Record.

If you can’t access your COVID-19 digital certificate, contact the Australian
Immunisation Register general enquiries line on [1800 653 809](tel:1800 653
809).  
  
For more information, see [how to get proof of your COVID-19 vaccinations](how
to get proof of your COVID-19 vaccinations)

#### How do I get proof of all my vaccinations?

You can get an immunisation history statement that shows **all** the
vaccinations you’ve had that are recorded on the Australian Immunisation
Register (AIR). It also shows your immunisation status for any COVID-19
vaccinations you’ve had.

Your vaccination provider needs to report your vaccination information to the
AIR before it will appear on your statement.

#### I have a My Health Record

If you have a My Health Record, you can get your immunisation history
statement by logging into your record. See [Getting proof of your vaccinations
from My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-
inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record "Getting proof
of your vaccinations from My Health Record") for more information.

#### I don’t have a My Health Record

See [how to get proof of your covid-19
vaccinations](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof-your-
covid-19-vaccinations) for more information on how to get your immunisation
history statement.

#### I can’t get proof of my COVID-19 vaccination online

If you can’t get proof of your COVID-19 vaccinations online, you can call the
Australian Immunisation Register on [1800 653 809](tel:1800 653 809) (Monday
to Friday 8 am to 5 pm) and ask them to send your immunisation history
statement or your digital certificate. It can take up to 14 days to arrive in
the post.

#### How do I get a paper copy of my proof of vaccinations? I don't have a
smart phone or computer.

You can call the Australian Immunisation Register on [1800 653
809](tel:1800%20653%20809) (Monday to Friday 8 am to 5 pm) and ask them to
send you a paper copy of your immunisation history statement or COVID-19
digital certificate. It can take up to 14 days to arrive in the post.

#### What do I do if a COVID-19 vaccination or other immunisation information
is incomplete or missing from My Health Record?

If you’ve had a vaccination and it’s not appearing in your My Health Record,
first check your Medicare Information Settings.

From the **Profile & Settings** tab, select **Medicare Information Settings**.

Make sure ‘Yes’ is selected for ‘All information about immunisations recorded
on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR)’. See [Getting proof of your
vaccinations from My Health Record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-record
"Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record") for help on how to
do this.

If your AIR setting is set to ‘Yes’, your vaccination provider may not yet
have sent the information to AIR. Your vaccination provider needs to report
your vaccination information to the AIR before it will appear in your My
Health Record. This can take a few days.

If your vaccination provider has sent your vaccination information to AIR and
this information is not appearing in your My Health Record, call the
Australian Immunisation Register general enquiries line on [1800 653
809](tel:1800 653 809) (Monday to Friday 8 am to 5 pm).

If the information is appearing in your Medicare Online account but not in
your My Health Record, and your Medicare Information Settings for AIR are set
to ‘Yes’, call the My Health Record helpline on [1800 723 471](tel:1800 723
471) (24 hours, 7 days a week).

#### Why aren’t my COVID-19 pathology test reports showing in my record?

Your pathology providers may not have had enough information to upload your
test results to My Health Record.

Next time you have a COVID-19 test, ask the provider to record your Medicare,
DVA number or IHI number so that the test can be uploaded to your My Health
Record. If you don’t have any of these numbers, ask them to record your full
address.

#### I’m not eligible for Medicare. Do I need a My Health Record to get proof
of my COVID-19 vaccinations?

If you’re not eligible for Medicare, you can get proof of your vaccinations
online in a couple of ways. You need to have an Individual Healthcare
Identifier (IHI) to get proof online.

#### I have an Individual Healthcare Identifier (IHI)

If you have an Individual Healthcare Identifier (IHI), the easiest way to get
proof of your vaccinations online is by creating a myGov account and linking
to the Individual Healthcare Identifier service.

See [how to get proof of your
vaccination](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof-your-
covid-19-vaccinations).

#### I don’t have an Individual Healthcare Identifier (IHI)

If you don’t have an Individual Healthcare Identifier, you can apply for one
online. See [How to get an
IHI​](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/individual-
healthcare-identifiers/how-get-ihi) for more information.

Once you have your IHI, the easiest way to get proof of your vaccinations
online is by creating a myGov account and linking to the Individual Healthcare
Identifier service.

See [how to get proof of your
vaccination](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof-your-
covid-19-vaccinations).

#### I want to get proof of my vaccination from My Health Record

If you have an IHI you can [register for a My Health Record](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-a-record-without-medicare-or-
dva-benefits "Set up a record without Medicare or DVA benefits"). This can
take up to 10 days after you have submitted the forms (or longer, in times of
high demand). You can then get proof of your vaccinations from your record.

See [Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record](/initiatives-
and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-
from-my-health-record "Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health
Record") or for more information on how to find this information once you have
a record.

#### I can’t get proof of my COVID-19 vaccination online

If you can’t get proof of your COVID-19 vaccinations online, you can call the
Australian Immunisation Register on [1800 653 809](tel:1800 653 809) (Monday
to Friday 8 am to 5 pm) and ask them to send your immunisation history
statement or you digital certificate. It can take up to 14 days to arrive in
the post.

#### I am a DVA cardholder and don’t use Medicare. How can I get proof of my
vaccinations from My Health Record?

If you haven’t accessed your My Health Record before, you need an access code
to link your [myGov](https://my.gov.au/) account to your My Health Record.

Call the Help line on [1800 723 471](tel:1800 723 471) (24 hours, 7 days a
week) who will verify your identity and give you an access code (also called
an Identity Verification Code).

Once you have linked your myGov account to your My Health Record, you can [get
your proof of vaccination from your record.](/initiatives-and-programs/my-
health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-from-my-health-
record "Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record")

#### I can’t get proof of vaccinations online because my name or date of birth
in my Australian Immunisation Register record are wrong. How can I update
this?

The Australian Immunisation Register uses details from your Medicare record.
If these details are wrong, you can contact Medicare to get them updated.
[Find out how to update personal details with
Medicare.](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register/update-your-details-air) If you’re not eligible for
Medicare and need to update your details, you can call the Australian
Immunisation Register on [1800 653809](tel:1800653809).

#### I received vaccinations overseas. Will they show up in My Health Record?

The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) and Department of Health decide
which COVID-19 vaccine brands given overseas are recognised in Australia and
can be recorded on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR).

[Find out which COVID-19 vaccines are approved for use in Australia
](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-get-your-
covid-19-vaccinations?context=60091#a1)

[Find out how to get a COVID-19 vaccination received overseas added to the
AIR.](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/help-adding-overseas-
covid-19-vaccinations-to-australian-immunisation-register-air?context=60091)

If you’ve received other immunisations overseas, you may also be able to have
these vaccinations added to the AIR.

[Find out how to add immunisations you’ve had overseas to the
AIR](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/overseas-
immunisations?context=22436)

#### Why do I get a ‘Blocked plug in’ error when I try to download proof of
vaccinations from My Health Record?

Check that you are using a device and browser compatible with the My Health
Record system.  
See the [list of devices, operating systems and/or web browsers that are
supported by My Health Record.](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/whats-inside/compatible-browsers "Compatible browsers")

#### Sharing your COVID-19 proof of vaccination with others

With My Health Record your essential #COVID-19 information including proof of
vaccination and test results, as well as other important health information is
secure and available to you whenever you need it.

Apart from you, the only people who can directly view or access information in
your My Health Record, including your immunisation information, are your
healthcare providers, people you invite to help you manage your record, and
people who manage your record for you if you are not able to.

You can choose to share information stored in your My Health Record with other
people or organisations, but this is entirely up to you.

There are two proof of vaccination documents available in My Health Record.
Your immunisation history statement shows all your vaccinations recorded on
the Australian Immunisation Register (including COVID-19 vaccinations) and
your COVID-19 digital certificate shows only your COVID-19 vaccinations. You
can download your COVID-19 digital certificate to your digital wallet to use
as you choose.

If you have questions about whether you are required to provide proof of
vaccination, please contact your state or territory health department.

If you are concerned that someone has looked at your My Health Record when
they shouldn't have, call us on 1800 723 471 and we will investigate.

## Set up and access My Health Record

#### I wa **nt to manage a My Health Rec** ord for someone else. How do I do
this?

An authorised representative can be appointed to manage the My Health Record
of someone who is not able to make decisions for themselves. This could be a
child under 14 years or someone 14 years and over, who lacks capacity to make
their own decisions.

You will need to provide supporting evidence of your authority to act on
behalf of your dependant.

[More information about authorised representatives and applying to become an
authorised representative](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/getting-
started/authorised-representatives/manage-a-dependants-my-health-record
"Manage a dependant’s My Health Record")

If the person is over 14 and has capacity to make their own decisions, but
needs help to manage their My Health Record, they can choose to appoint
someone to be a nominated representative for their record. A nominated
representative might be a family member, close friend, or carer.

[More information about nominated representatives](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/privacy-and-access/nominated-
representatives "Nominated representatives")

#### I’ve applied for a My Health Record and want to find out the progress of
my application.

We are currently receiving a high volume of applications and it is taking
longer than usual to process them.

Once a My Health Record application form has been processed you will be sent a
letter to the address you have registered with Medicare (or the Healthcare
Identifiers Service) advising your registration has been successful. The
letter will contain an Identity Verification Code which you need to access
your record online.

If you need proof of your vaccinations, there are other ways to get this
information, which may be quicker.

[More information on how to get proof of your
vaccinations](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof-your-
covid-19-vaccinations).

#### My name, date of birth, sex or address details are wrong in My Health
Record. How do I update them?

These details in My Health Record come from Medicare. If they are wrong,
you’ll need to update them in your Medicare record. These updated details will
then show in My Health Record.  
If you have a Medicare online account, you can update some of your details
online.  
[Find out how to update personal details with
Medicare.](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-your-
medicare-card-and-account-work/update-your-personal-details-
medicare#updatingname )

#### How can I cancel my My Health Record?

If you have a My Health Record and decide you no longer want it, you can
cancel it at any time. You can cancel My Health Record online or by completing
a cancellation form.

When you cancel your record, the information in your record, including any
backups, is permanently deleted from the system.

Before cancelling your record, you should consider the many benefits of having
a My Health Record, including giving participating doctors, hospitals and
other healthcare providers access to information such as allergies, medicines
you’re taking, medical conditions and pathology tests to help them give you
the best possible care.

[Find out about the benefits of My Health Record and how to cancel your
record](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-record/profile-
and-settings/cancelling-a-record "Cancelling a record")​​​​​​

#### Where can I find a list of healthcare providers who are participating in
My Health Record?

You can refer to this [list of pathology and diagnostic imaging providers, and
public and private hospitals who are using My Health Record](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/pathology-and-diagnostic-imaging-providers-
uploading-to-my-health-record "Pathology and diagnostic imaging providers
uploading to My Health Record").

#### Can I add an advance care planning to my record?

Advance care planning documents can be added to your record so your wishes can
be safely and securely accessed if they were ever needed in a medical
emergency.

You, your nominated and authorised representatives can add an advance care
planning document to your record.

[Learn more](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/advance-
care-planning "Advance care planning")

## View and edit documents in My Health Record

#### I’ve logged in to My Health Record for the first time. Where is my
historical medical information?

The first time you log into My Health Record there may be little or no
information in it. Your medical history won’t be automatically included in
your record.

The next time you visit your GP, ask them to prepare a shared health summary
and upload it to your record. This summary can capture any of your important
health information, such as previous medical conditions or diagnoses,
treatments, medications and allergies and adverse reactions, and results from
tests or scans that can then be shared with your other treating healthcare
providers including specialists and hospital staff.

The shared health summary can be prepared from your GP's computer if they have
compatible software and are registered to connect to the My Health Record
system.

You can choose to include up to two years of Medicare information such as
medicines dispensed and immunisations you’ve received. [Find out what types of
Medicare information you can include](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/whats-inside/medicare-information "Medicare information")

You can add emergency contacts, a personal health summary, personal health
notes, and advance care planning information to your record. [More information
about adding and managing information in your record](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online "Set up
your record online")

#### I’ve recently had blood tests or diagnostic images such as X-rays. Will
these be uploaded to My Health Record?

When you have a pathology test or diagnostic image taken, you can ask the
provider if they are connected to My Health Record. See a [list of
participating pathology and diagnostic imaging providers](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/pathology-and-diagnostic-imaging-providers-
uploading-to-my-health-record "Pathology and diagnostic imaging providers
uploading to My Health Record").

You can ask the provider to record your Medicare, DVA number or IHI number so
that the results can be uploaded to your record. If you don’t have any of
these numbers, ask them to record your full address.

Some pathology labs will only upload to My Health Record if the request was
sent from your healthcare provider using an e-request that contains your
Individual Healthcare Identifier (IHI). Speak to the healthcare provider
ordering your tests and ask them if they are using e-requesting. [Find out
more about e-requesting](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/about/who-is-using-
digital-health/diagnostic-imaging-and-pathology-providers-uploading-my-health-
record)

#### Is it mandatory for healthcare providers to participate in the My Health
Record system?

It is not mandatory for healthcare providers to participate in the My Health
Record system. However, most GPs, hospitals and an increasing number of
pathology and diagnostic imaging providers are now connected, and healthcare
providers’ use of the system continues to grow.

The Australian Digital Health Agency and our delivery partners are currently
providing targeted education sessions and registration assistance to
specialists and allied health providers. We continue to work across the health
sector to support increased participation.

We encourage you to talk to your GP and other treating healthcare providers
and ask them to upload any new and important information to your record.

#### Why can’t my healthcare provider see my immunisations information in my
My Health Record?

If your healthcare provider can’t see your immunisations information in your
record, first check your Medicare Information Settings (under Profile &
Settings). Make sure ‘Yes’ is selected for ‘All information about
immunisations recorded on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR). See
[Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-
from-my-health-record "Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health
Record") for help on how to do this.

If your AIR setting is set to ‘Yes’, you may have restricted who can access
your immunisation information. Only healthcare providers and representatives
with ‘Restricted Access’ can view restricted documents.

To check what level of access is set for your immunisations information, from
the **Privacy & Access** tab select **Manage My Document Access**. Check the
access level and change if needed. [More information about managing access to
your documents](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/manage-your-
record/privacy-and-access/hide-or-remove-documents-from-a-record "Hide or
remove documents from a record").

You can manage your healthcare providers organisations’ access levels by
selecting ‘My Healthcare Organisations’ (under Privacy & Access).

#### Can I add my own medical reports to My Health Record for my healthcare
providers to see?

The My Health Record system does not allow users to upload their own documents
to their My Health Record, other than advance care planning documents.

You can add some of your own information to keep track of your personal health
details.

Personal health summaries allow you to share important information such as
allergies, medications, and adverse reactions with your healthcare providers.

Personal health notes can act as a diary capturing personal observations about
your own health, or over the counter medicines you have been taking. Personal
health notes are private and cannot be seen by your healthcare providers.

Find out how to [add a personal health summary or a personal health
note](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/information-you-
can-add/personal-health-summaries "Personal health summaries")  

## Electronic prescriptions

#### I accidentally deleted the SMS with my token. How can I get access to my
electronic prescription?

If you accidentally deleted the SMS or email with your electronic prescription
token, you can ask for it to be resent. For original prescriptions, contact
the prescriber. For repeats, contact the pharmacy that issued the repeat.

You may be able to manage your electronic prescriptions through a [mobile
app](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/registers "Registers"). Ask your
pharmacy if they are connected to any of these apps or recommend one.

You can also register for an active script list. This lets your chosen
provider access your active electronic prescriptions, even if you don’t have a
token. [Find out more about active script ](/newsroom/podcasts/electronic-
prescriptions-active-script-list#active-script-list-as "Electronic
prescriptions: Active Script List")

## Popular links

### Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record

[Getting proof of your vaccinations from My Health Record](/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record/whats-inside/getting-proof-of-your-vaccinations-
from-my-health-record)

### Set up your record online

[Set up your record online](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/getting-started/set-up-your-record-online)

### Access or view My Health Record information

[View My Health Record using an app](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record/manage-your-record/view-my-health-record-using-an-app)

### Did you find this page helpful?

Yes No

Feedback (required)

## Follow

  * [ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/AuDigitalHealth)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://au.linkedin.com/company/australian-digital-health-agency)
  * [ YouTube ](https://www.youtube.com/user/eHealthAus)

## Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ About us ](/about-us)
  * [ Careers ](/careers)
  * [ Contact us ](/support/contact-us)
  * [ Newsroom ](/newsroom)
  * [ Digital health for healthcare providers ](/healthcare-providers?ln=3)
  * [ Developer Centre ](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/)
  * [ National Clinical Terminology Service ](https://www.healthterminologies.gov.au/)

## Initiatives and programs

  * [ My Health Record ](/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-record)
  * [ Electronic prescriptions ](/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-prescriptions)
  * [ Telehealth ](/initiatives-and-programs/telehealth)
  * [ More digital health tools ](/initiatives-and-programs)

By operation of the _Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
(Establishing the Australian Digital Health Agency) Rule 2016_ , on 1 July
2016, all the assets and liabilities of NEHTA will vest in the Australian
Digital Health Agency. In this website, on and from 1 July 2016, all
references to "National E-Health Transition Authority" or "NEHTA" will be
deemed to be references to the Australian Digital Health Agency. PCEHR means
the My Health Record, formerly the "Personally Controlled Electronic Health
Record", within the meaning of the _My Health Records Act 2012_ (Cth),
formerly called the _Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012_
(Cth).

The Australian Digital Health Agency acknowledges the Traditional Owners of
Country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to Elders past,
present and emerging.

© 2023 Australian Digital Health Agency

  * [ Sitemap ](/sitemap)
  * [ Privacy policy ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/privacy-policy)
  * [ Terms of use ](/about-us/policies-privacy-and-reporting/terms-of-use)

![](/themes/custom/adha_theme/src/virtual-assistant/images/va-chat-bubble.svg)
Chat

Close chat

Your browser does not support iframes.

