Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  4. [Getting your COVID-19 vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)

[Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination)

# Before your COVID-19 vaccination

Learn how to prepare for your vaccination, including what to do if you don't
have a Medicare card or you are feeling anxious.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Before your COVID-19 vaccination&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/before)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/before)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Before your COVID-19 vaccination&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/before)

Loading...

On this page

This information has been superseded by [new ATAGI advice for early 2023
COVID-19 booster doses](https://health.gov.au/news/atagi-2023-booster-advice)
and will be updated shortly.

## Find a clinic and book a COVID-19 vaccination appointment

If you haven't already done so, book an appointment.

[Find a clinic and book](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-
services)

## Check your Medicare details and online access

If you have a Medicare card, check your details are up to date:

  * through your [Medicare online account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-online-accounts) via [myGov](https://my.gov.au/LoginServices/main/login?execution=e2s1)
  * in the [Express Plus Medicare app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-plus-medicare-mobile-app)
  * by calling [Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us/phone-us#medicaregeneral).

If you need to, [update your
details](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-your-
medicare-card-and-account-work/update-your-personal-details-medicare).

If you have a Medicare account but don't have online access, you can [set up
your account via
myGov](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-enrol-
and-get-started-medicare/setting-your-medicare-online-account).

## If you don't have a Medicare account

If you are eligible for Medicare but don't have an account, you can [enrol in
Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-enrol-
and-get-started-medicare/enrolling-medicare).

You can still get a vaccine if you aren't eligible for Medicare.

Find out how to [get a vaccination if you don't have a Medicare account](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card "COVID-19
vaccination if you don't have a Medicare card").

## For carers, family members and guardians

Guardians, family members and carers who need to make a vaccination decision
on someone's behalf can download a [Consent form for COVID-19
vaccination](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-consent-form-for-
covid-19-vaccination "COVID-19 vaccination – Consent form for COVID-19
vaccination").

Access the [COVID-19 vaccine information and consent form for vaccinating
children aged 5 to 11](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-pfizer-
information-and-consent-form-for-parents-and-guardians-of-children-
aged-5-to-11-years "COVID-19 vaccination – Pfizer information and consent form
for parents and guardians of children aged 5 to 11 years").

You can also download our [collection of Easy Read
resources](/resources/collections/covid-19-vaccination-easy-read-resources
"COVID-19 vaccination – Easy Read resources"), and read information for
[people with disability](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector/people-
with-disability "Information for people with disability about COVID-19
vaccines"), as well as [information for children, teens and
parent/guardians](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccine-information-for-
children-teens-and-parentsguardians "COVID-19 vaccine information for
children, teens and parents/guardians").

## If you are anxious or have questions

You can:

  * talk to your vaccine provider about any questions or concerns you have
  * have a friend or relative go with you to your appointment
  * ask for somewhere quiet to sit 
  * ask for support and reassurance when you receive your vaccination, if you are afraid of needles
  * book in to talk to your GP.

You can learn more about vaccination and approved vaccines in our [collection
of patient resources](/resources/collections/covid-19-vaccination-patient-
resources "COVID-19 vaccination – Patient resources").

Last updated:

5 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
    * [Where you can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/locations)
    * [If you don't have a Medicare card](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card)
    * [Before your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/before)
    * [After your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/after)
    * [Booster doses](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)
    * [If you’ve already had COVID-19](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/vaccination-after-covid-19-infection)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

