Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Private health insurance

Private health insurance policies cover some of the costs of treatment in a
private hospital. Insurance can also help cover 'extras' – other medical
services such as dental, physiotherapy, optical and more. Find out how Health
helps to improve the private health insurance industry.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Private health insurance&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Private health insurance&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance)

Loading...

Are you affected by the Medibank Private and AHM cyberattack? Find out what to
do if you think your [Medicare card
number](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/protecting-your-personal-
information-after-data-breach), or [Medicare provider
number](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/what-to-do-if-your-medicare-
provider-number-exposed-data-breach) has been exposed.

###  [ Learn about private health insurance ](/topics/private-health-
insurance/about-private-health-insurance)

Find out about private health insurance — what is it, why have it, how it
works.

###  [ Understand private health insurance reforms ](/topics/private-health-
insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)

Reforms are happening to make private health insurance simpler and more
affordable.

###  [ What is covered by private health insurance? ](/topics/private-health-
insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)

Private health insurance provides cover for health care not covered by
Medicare.

###  [ Compare private health insurance policies
](https://www.privatehealth.gov.au/dynamic/search/start)

Use this online tool to select and compare private health insurance policies.

[View all private health insurance information](/topics/private-health-
insurance/about-private-health-insurance)

###  [ Rules for insurers and providers ](/topics/private-health-
insurance/operating-rules-for-private-health-insurers-and-providers)

What insurers offer and how they communicate with policy holders is governed
by Australia's private health insurance laws. Insurers, private hospitals and
medical device sponsors must also comply with certain processes.

###  [ The Prostheses List ](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-
list)

Private health insurers are required to pay benefits for the products listed
on the Prostheses List. Find out what the Prostheses List includes, when we
update it, and how to apply to list products on it or change current listings.

![Image of medical imaging
](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/diagnostic_imaging.jpg?itok=e6H-wX8b)

### Updates for private health insurers

Read the latest private health insurance (PHI) circulars for updates on
matters affecting private health insurers.

You can access [PHI circulars published between 2010 and 2018 through
Trove](https://webarchive.nla.gov.au/awa/20201112224811/https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
privatehealth-providers-circulars.htm) on the National Archives of Australia's
site.

[Private health insurance circulars](https://www.health.gov.au/news/phi-
circulars)

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![Submissions analysis on the Prostheses List Compliance
Strategy](/sites/default/files/2023-05/submissions-analysis-on-the-prostheses-
list-compliance-strategy.png)

### [Submissions analysis on the Prostheses List Compliance Strategy
](/resources/publications/submissions-analysis-on-the-prostheses-list-
compliance-strategy?language=en)

18 May 2023

Report

The below report provides analysis of stakeholder feedback to the proposed
Prostheses List Compliance Strategy. The submission period for responses was
between 14 September and 21 October 2022.

![Prostheses List Compliance
Strategy](/sites/default/files/2023-05/prostheses-list-compliance-strategy-
safeguarding-the-prostheses-list.png)

### [Prostheses List Compliance Strategy – Safeguarding the Prostheses List
](/resources/publications/prostheses-list-compliance-strategy-safeguarding-
the-prostheses-list?language=en)

18 May 2023

Report

The below document outlines Prostheses List compliance obligations for
relevant stakeholders and the Australian Government.

![Prostheses List cardiac implantable electronic devices \(CIEDs\) benefit
reductions from 1 July 2023](/sites/default/files/2023-05/prostheses-list-
cardiac-implantable-electronic-devices-cieds-benefit-reductions-
from-1-july-2023.png)

### [Prostheses List cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) benefit
reductions from 1 July 2023 ](/resources/publications/prostheses-list-cardiac-
implantable-electronic-devices-cieds-benefit-reductions-
from-1-july-2023?language=en)

10 May 2023

Dataset

The below data documents detail cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs)
that will have their Prostheses List (PL) benefits reduced by 40% of the gap
on 1 July 2023.

![Private health insurance clinical category definitions 1 July
2023](/sites/default/files/2023-05/private-health-insurance-clinical-category-
definitions-1-july-2023.png)

### [Private health insurance clinical category definitions 1 July 2023
](/resources/publications/private-health-insurance-clinical-category-
definitions-1-july-2023?language=en)

4 May 2023

Dataset

Standard clinical category definitions for private health insurance hospital
policies, as of 5 May 2023 and effective 1 July 2023.

[View more resources](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-
insurance-resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

![Private health insurance
reforms](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-11/reforms-
to-private-health-insurance-have-started.jpeg?itok=pfEhTrH7)

## Reforms to private health insurance have started

From 1 April 2019, new rules are being introduced to help make private health
insurance simpler, more affordable. This will make it easier for you to choose
the cover that best suits you and your family.

[Find out more](/news/reforms-to-private-health-insurance-have-started)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

