Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program)
  4. [Getting a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test)

[Getting a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-
program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test)

# How to get a Cervical Screening Test

You can get a Cervical Screening Test from most health clinics or services.
Find out how to locate your nearest service and who can give the test. If
you're due for a test, make a booking – it could save your life.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=How to get a Cervical Screening Test&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-to-get-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-to-get-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=How to get a Cervical Screening Test&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-to-get-a-cervical-screening-test)

Loading...

On this page

## **Where you can get a Cervical Screening Test**

You can get a Cervical Screening Test at different places Australia-wide,
including:

  * a doctor’s clinic
  * a community health centre
  * a women’s health centre
  * a family planning clinic
  * a sexual health clinic
  * an Aboriginal Medical Service or Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Service.

## **Who can do a Cervical Screening Test**

A healthcare provider facilitates the Cervical Screening Test. Providers can
include:

  * a doctor or general practitioner
  * a nurse trained in cervical screening
  * a gynaecologist or other specialist
  * an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Practitioner or Worker (in some states and territories).

If you prefer, you can ask for a female health professional to do your test.

If you are eligible for a Cervical Screening Test, you have the choice to
either:

  * collect your own sample from your vagina using a simple swab (self-collection)
  * have your healthcare provider collect a sample from your cervix using a speculum.

Talk to your doctor, nurse or health worker about which option is best for
you.

## How to book a Cervical Screening Test

Contact your GP or health care provider to check if you're due or overdue for
a Cervical Screening Test. If you’re due, make a booking with them.

If you don't have a preferred health care provider, use [healthdirect’s
service finder](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services) to
help you find a provider.

You can also check if you're due by calling the National Cancer Screening
Register:

![National Cancer Screening Register
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/national-
cancer-screening-register-contact.png?itok=u5Fh2Xk_)

###  [ National Cancer Screening Register contact ](/contacts/national-cancer-
screening-register-contact?language=en)

Contact the National Cancer Screening Register to update your contact details
or ask questions about the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program or National
Cervical Screening Program. You can call between 8 am and 6 pm Monday to
Friday, except national public holidays, from anywhere in Australia.

[1800 627 701](tel:1800 627 701)

[1800 627 702](tel:1800 627 702)

[Contact the National Cancer Screening
Register](https://ncsr.gov.au/content/ncsr/en/contact-us.html)

## **Costs for the Cervical Screening Test**

There is a Medicare rebate for cervical screening. If your chosen health care
provider bulk bills there should be no cost to you, depending on when you had
your last test.

Some health care providers do charge a fee, so it’s best to check if there are
any extra costs when making your appointment.

Last updated:

1 July 2022

Tags:

  * [Sexual health](/topics/sexual-health)
  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-
screening-program)

  * [About the program](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/about-the-national-cervical-screening-program)
  * [Getting a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [Who should get a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/who-should-get-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [How to get a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-to-get-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [How cervical screening works](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-cervical-screening-works)
    * [Self-collection](/self-collection-for-the-cervical-screening-test)
    * [Understanding your results](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/understanding-your-cervical-screening-test-results)
  * [Providing cervical screening](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/providing-cervical-screening)
  * [News](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/national-cervical-screening-program-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/cervical-screening-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/cervical-screening-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

