Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Short-Term Restorative Care (STRC) Programme](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)

[Short-Term Restorative Care Programme](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-
strc-programme)

# Charging for Short-Term Restorative Care (STRC) Programme services

People receiving STRC services can be asked to pay fees, if they can afford to
do so. Find out what fees you can charge as an approved STRC provider.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Charging for Short-Term Restorative Care \(STRC\) Programme services&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/charging-for-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme-services)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/charging-for-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme-services)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Charging for Short-Term Restorative Care \(STRC\) Programme services&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/charging-for-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme-services)

Loading...

On this page

## Charging fees for STRC services

STRC service providers can ask clients to pay a care fee above the [flexible
care subsidy](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/funding-
for-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/flexible-care-subsidy-for-
the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme "Flexible care subsidy for the
Short-Term Restorative Care \(STRC\) Programme") to meet any additional costs.

The client must agree to the amount you charge in their care agreement. How
much you charge is up to you, but there are limits.

Approved providers must not refuse to provide STRC to a person because of the
person’s inability to pay fees.

Fees may be waived during the STRC episode should the client’s financial
circumstances change.

## Caps on care fee amounts

Caps on fees are based on the [current pension
rates](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/centrelink/age-
pension).

For STRC delivered in a residential setting, the most you ask a client to pay
is 85% of the basic daily rate of the single pension.

For STRC delivered in the home, the most you can ask a client to pay is 17.5%
of the basic daily rate of the single pension.

These rules apply to single and married clients.

## If circumstances change

If a client transitions between residential and home settings, where they
sleep that evening determines the maximum care fee.

For example if they will sleep in a residential facility, the maximum care fee
is 85% that day. If they will sleep in a home setting, it is 17.5%.

If a client leaves the programme, providers can charge a fee up to their point
of exit.

## What can you use STRC fees for?

You as the provider are responsible for determining what you will spend a STRC
fees on, but this must be discussed and agreed to with the client.

Fee amounts and what the fee will be spent on must be transparent in the
client’s flexible care agreement, including:

  * how much each service costs
  * how much will be spent on administrative costs

STRC fees **cannot** be use for services that may be claimed through the
[Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/) or pharmaceutical
goods on the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule](http://www.pbs.gov.au/).

## Managing fees for STRC

See chapter 3.10 of the [Short-Term Restorative Care Programme
Manual](/resources/publications/short-term-restorative-care-programme-manual
"Short-Term Restorative Care Programme Manual") for information on managing
fees, including:

  * determining fees
  * maximum amounts
  * affordability of care
  * refundable accommodation deposits (RAD) and daily accommodation payments (DAP)
  * paying fees in advance
  * care fees for Department of Veterans Affairs clients and Veterans

Last updated:

22 January 2020

Tags:

  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Home Care Packages Program](/our-work/home-care-packages-program)
  * [Residential aged care](/our-work/residential-aged-care)
  * [Short-Term Restorative Care (STRC) Programme](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Short-Term Restorative Care Programme](/our-work/short-term-restorative-
care-strc-programme)

  * [About the program](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/about-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
  * [Before providing STRC services](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/before-providing-short-term-restorative-care-strc-services)
  * [Responsibilities of providers](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/responsibilities-of-short-term-restorative-care-strc-providers)
  * [Delivering services](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/delivering-services-under-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
  * [Funding](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/funding-for-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
  * [Charging for services](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/charging-for-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme-services)
  * [Managing the program](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/managing-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
  * [Resources](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/short-term-restorative-care-programme-strc-resources)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

