Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Better Access initiative

The Better Access initiative gives Medicare rebates to help people access
mental health professionals and care, regardless of where they live. Find out
how the initiative works, who is eligible and how you can access supports.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Better Access initiative&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/better-access-initiative)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/better-access-initiative)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Better Access initiative&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/better-access-initiative)

Loading...

On this page

## About the initiative

The Better Access initiative gives Medicare rebates to eligible people, so
they can access the mental health services they need.

Support is available from eligible general practitioners (GPs) and other
medical practitioners, psychologists, social workers and occupational
therapists.

Eligible people can receive up to 10 individual and up to 10 group allied
mental health services each year.

Since 1 November 2017, those who live in rural and remote areas ([Modified
Monash Model areas 4 to 7](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/mmm
"Modified Monash Model")) have had access to these services via telehealth.
Since 30 March 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, everyone can now access
telehealth.

![Evaluation of the Better Access initiative - Final
Report](/sites/default/files/styles/h_featured_max_width/public/2022-12/evaluation-
of-the-better-access-initiative-final-report.jpg?itok=sk3qPqkT)

## Evaluation of the Better Access initiative – final report

This is the final report of an independent evaluation of the Better Access to
Psychiatrists, Psychologists and General Practitioners through the Medicare
Benefits Schedule initiative (Better Access), undertaken by the University of
Melbourne.

[Find out more](/resources/collections/evaluation-of-the-better-access-
initiative-final-report)

### **Extra support during the COVID-19 pandemic**

Extra support is available until 31 December 2022 for people who have a mental
health treatment plan in place. People experiencing severe or enduring mental
health impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic can access an extra 10 sessions.

Read about [these extra sessions](/looking-after-your-mental-health-during-
coronavirus-covid-19-restrictions "Looking after your mental health during
coronavirus \(COVID-19\) restrictions").

## Why it is important

Living with mental ill-health has a huge impact on people’s lives, and can be
overwhelming. For people experiencing mental ill-health, getting the right
support and treatment strategies early is critical.

Better Access helps cover the cost of this support, giving people easier
access and more choice.

People in rural and remote areas, where mental health services can be scarce,
particularly benefit from being able to access video consultations.

## Goals of the initiative

Better Access aims to encourage more people to seek support for their mental
ill-health.

It works to improve treatment and management for people who have mild to
moderate mental health conditions. These are cases where short-term evidence-
based interventions are most likely to be useful.

Better Access also funds education and training for health professionals. This
helps increase the skills of our mental health workforce to ensure people get
effective support.

### ****Better Access Evaluation****

We are evaluating Better Access. The evaluation will see if Better Access
helps people get the right support. It will also help us work out how to
improve Better Access.

Read about the [evaluation](/our-work/better-access-evaluation "Better Access
Evaluation").

## Who can access Better Access rebates

The rebate is available to people with a diagnosed mental disorder. This
includes many conditions, such as depression and anxiety.

The first step is to talk to your GP, psychiatrist or paediatrician and
discuss whether treatment under Better Access is suitable for your needs.

## MBS item changes for group therapy under the Better Access initiative

From **1 November 2022** , group therapy Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)
items under the Better Access initiative will include:

  * 16 new MBS items for group therapy sessions lasting at least 90 minutes or 120 minutes
  * amendments to 8 existing MBS items to reduce the minimum number of patients required to hold a group therapy session from 6 to 4
  * allowing all group therapy MBS items to be claimed with only 3 patients, if 4 patients were scheduled to attend but one patient does not attend (for example, due to unforeseen circumstances).

More information on [Group Therapy MBS
Changes](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Factsheet-
Group%20Therapy) can be found on MBS online.

## **Who we work with**

We fund and manage the Better Access initiative.

[Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/topics/education-guide-better-access-mental-health-care-
eligible-practitioners-and-allied-health/35591) processes benefits paid under
the Medicare Benefits Schedule.

## **Better Access education and training**

Better Access funds education and training for mental health professionals.
This helps to build their skills in working with people who live with mental
ill-health.

It also helps them understand important aspects of effectively treating
people, including:

  * understanding Medicare Benefits Schedule item numbers
  * referrals and patient health care planning
  * how mental health professionals can work together in a multidisciplinary care team.

To support medical professionals, we fund the:

  * [Mental Health Professionals' Network](http://www.mhpn.org.au/) to establish and support networks of professionals who work together on referral and treatment strategies
  * [General Practice Mental Health Standards Collaboration](https://gpmhsc.org.au/) to establish quality standards of education and training in mental health for general practitioners.

## Learn more

![Cover image for Better Access resource
collection](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2020/09/better-
access-initiative-resource-collection.jpg?itok=_E0cNv7P)

###  [Better Access Initiative resource collection
](/resources/collections/better-access-initiative-resource-
collection?language=en)

This collection contains resources for the Better Access evaluation

## Contact

For more information on Better Access call Medicare on:

  * 132 150 for providers
  * 132 011 for people seeking assistance.

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Better Access Evaluation ](/contacts/better-access-
evaluation?language=en)

Contact us if you have questions about the Better Access evaluation.

[psychologicalservices@health.gov.au](mailto:psychologicalservices@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

27 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  * [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

