Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

[COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

# COVID-19 digital certificates

Find out how to get your COVID-19 vaccination certificate, update it if it's
incorrect, and show you are vaccinated even if you don't have a Medicare card.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=COVID-19 digital certificates&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=COVID-19 digital certificates&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)

Loading...

On this page

## Your COVID-19 digital certificate

Your digital vaccination certificate is updated when you receive each dose of
vaccine. This includes a [third dose](/news/atagi-statement-on-the-use-
of-a-3rd-primary-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-individuals-who-are-severely-
immunocompromised "ATAGI statement on the use of a 3rd primary dose of
COVID-19 vaccine in individuals who are severely immunocompromised") if you
are someone with severe immunocompromise or if it is your [booster dose](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses "COVID-19
booster vaccine advice").

See Services Australia for full instructions on [how to get proof of your
COVID-19
vaccinations](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof-your-
covid-19-vaccinations).

You can see it in your Medicare account through:

  * the [Express Plus Medicare app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-plus-medicare-mobile-app)
  * [myGov](https://my.gov.au/).

You will need to link your myGov account to Medicare.

You can also see your digital certificate in [My Health
Record](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/mhr-proof-of-vaccinations). If you
havent logged into your record yet, you will need to link your myGov account
to My Health Record.

You can save your digital certificate to your Apple Wallet or Google Pay if
this option suits you.

## If your information is missing or wrong

It may take up to 10 days for the certificate to show in your account.

If you can't find it there, your vaccination provider can print your
[immunisation history
statement](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register/what-immunisation-history-statement) for you.

You can also call the [Australian Immunisation
Register](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us/phone-
us#acir) (AIR) and ask them to send your statement to you.

If your information is wrong, ask your vaccination provider to correct it with
the AIR.

## If you don't have a Medicare card

You can still get proof that you are vaccinated, even if you don't have a
Medicare card.

See Services Australia for details on [how to get
proof](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-help-
during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof-your-
covid-19-vaccinations) through the individual healthcare identifiers service.
Services Australia provides this information in many community languages.

## If you were vaccinated overseas

If you receive a [TGA-approved COVID-19
vaccine](https://www.tga.gov.au/covid-19-vaccine-provisional-registrations)
overseas, you can register your vaccination on the AIR when you return to
Australia.

See Services Australia for more on [how to register overseas
vaccinations](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register/what-register/overseas-immunisations).

See Smartraveller for [advice on travel and COVID-19
vaccines](https://www.smartraveller.gov.au/COVID-19/COVID-19-vaccinations).

## **Resources for businesses and communities**

Services Australia have created digital and printed [vaccination proof
resources for business and community
organisations](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/community/community-
resources-and-help/coronavirus-covid-19-resources).

These resources support communication with customers and community members,
and include:

  * posters 
  * social media items
  * videos
  * fact sheets
  * translated materials.

There are specific resources for CALD and Indigenous communities, as well as
community groups.

Doctors, health professionals, practice staff and pharmacy assistants can also
order printed copies of a flyer and poster on getting proof of COVID-19
vaccinations.

## Updates

You can check [Services Australia's news
listing](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/news/all) for the
latest updates on proof of vaccination and other issues.

Last updated:

8 March 2022

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

