Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Minister for Health and Aged Care - Press Conference - Adelaide - Friday, 5
May 2023

Read the transcript of Minister Butler's Press Conference in Adelaide on Heart
Health Checks and cheaper medicines.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Minister for Health and Aged Care - Press Conference - Adelaide - Friday, 5 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-adelaide-friday-5-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-adelaide-friday-5-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Minister for Health and Aged Care - Press Conference - Adelaide - Friday, 5 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-adelaide-friday-5-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

5 May 2023

Date published:

5 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**LOUISE MILLER-FROST MP, MEMBER FOR BOOTHBY:** It’s fantastic to be down here
at the Glengowrie Medical Centre on Heart Week for a very exciting
announcement, I have with me a number of people for Heart Week, Minister Mark
Butler, Peter Wilson who is our lived experience who is going to tell his
story in a moment, and David Lloyd who is the CEO of Heart Foundation. And I
think I’m handing straight over to the Minister.

  
**MINISTER FOR HEALTH AND AGED CARE, MARK BUTLER:** Thank you Louise, thank
you David, and other members of the Heart Foundation for joining us, and
particularly Peter for coming over from Port Lincoln to tell his really
compelling story. Thank you Louise for all the support you’re giving us in the
health team with your vast experience in the health sector over many years,
it's been really valuable to us. As we lead into Budget I'm really delighted
to make an important announcement today about the heart health of thousands
and thousands of Australians. We know that one in 10 Australians who are dying
at the moment are dying of heart disease. In spite of all the incredible
advances we've made in recent years and decades in cardiovascular treatment
and in prevention, heart disease is still a major killer of Australians. Much
of it, as the Heart Foundation and clinicians tell us all the time is entirely
preventable.  
  
  
For the last four years, we've had in place a heart health check or a heart
health assessment that general practitioners are able to undertake, that
literally saves thousands and thousands of lives. And unfortunately, that was
due to come to an end on the 30th of June that opportunity to save lives and
to give good preventative advice from a GP to patients was going to be lost.
I'm delighted to announce that in next week's Budget, there will be money
allocated to continue that heart health assessment. Over the next two years,
we expect more than 250,000 people will be able to get this high-quality heart
health check from their GPs, and that will save literally thousands and
thousands of lives.  
  
  
I want to really thank the GP community across Australia for their enthusiasm
over the last four years in embracing this heart health check. We know that
more than 450,000 high quality checks have already been made, as I said,
saving thousands and thousands of lives but I also want to thank the Heart
Foundation and other groups in the Heart Coalition for their really powerful
advocacy to us as government, directly to me as Minister, and through
backbench members like Louise, about the importance of us finding the money to
be able to extend this heart health assessment. I'm absolutely delighted that
next week's Budget that Jim Chalmers will deliver on Tuesday night has found
that money and given the opportunity of GPs across Australia to have those
discussions with their patients, a high-quality check, and save thousands and
thousands of lives. So now I'll hand over to David to talk about this from a
Heart Foundation perspective.  
  
  
**DAVID LLOYD, HEART FOUNDATION CEO:** Terrific, thank you very much Minister.
Obviously, we are thrilled about this. The renewal of the heart health check
on the MBS was one of the most important things to us in in this Budget. We
did, as you said Minister, we made our case strongly I think, but I hope also
respectfully in the budget context. We realised that it's a complex
environment in which the government makes this kind of decision. But
ultimately, what can I say, we've been listened to and we're deeply, deeply
grateful for that. Heart disease, as you say, Minister, causes more deaths in
Australia than anything else. We really do need our own item on the MBS. You
also mentioned the coalition of support the Heart Foundation has had around
this campaign for the last few weeks. I really do want to thank my colleagues
in the wider cardiovascular sector, we're a diverse bunch and we come together
pretty well, generally speaking. Honestly, I've never seen anything like the
coalition of support that the Heart Foundation has had from right across the
sector for this.

I also want to acknowledge that 41 - I started off with 40 this morning - but
it's now 41,000 people have signed the petition that supports the Heart
Foundation, the wider sort of family of interest, if you like around the Heart
Foundation, clinicians, donors, patients, researchers, and the wider community
have come together to support us. The people I really want to acknowledge most
are the general practitioners and the nurses and the allied health
professionals who run these heart health checks. As you said, Minister,
450,000 of these checks have been run over the last three or four years,
several hundred thousand more will be run over the next two years. That means
tens of thousands of lives will be saved and, in that work, GPs and nurses and
allied health professionals we are right behind you at the Heart Foundation
producing Heart Health Check toolkits and all the resources that we hope will
be useful to you in doing this work. As we like to say at the Heart
Foundation, we love your work and we're grateful for it. So thank you again,
Minister. This we believe is a great decision and we're deeply grateful for
it.  
  
  
**PETER WILSON, HEART ATTACK SURVIVOR:** Thank you for having me here,
Minister and of course, the Heart Foundation. Two years ago, I had a heart
attack. Unfortunately, one morning on a Wednesday morning after training,
physical training, I have gone home in the afternoon, and I've got pains
across the chest on the Wednesday. Of course, being a boxing trainer, you
think you're macho and that you’ll be right. My daughter who is an enrolled
nurse actually said to me probably around about a week before, you're looking
a bit terrible their Dad. Anyhow, I didn't worry about it, fobbed it off. I
really wish I had taken notice. Thursday morning to do the right thing and get
the heart ticking I went swimming down at the shark net in Port Lincoln. Then
halfway through the swimming incident I had a pain in the chest and went home
and my wife said, “what's wrong?” I said, “nothing.” Naturally, you've got to
be a macho man and tough. And then of course, on Friday morning, I've got out
of bed and then that was at eight o'clock, I put the clothes on, I didn't want
to disturb my darling wife in bed, and I rode the bike to the hospital. I
wouldn't recommend that to anyone, mind you. One of my doctors is a colleague
of mine, I trained her, she did give me a lift. The support I got from the
family and the support that I got from the Royal Flying Doctor Service, as you
know, you get flown out from Port Lincoln, the people that helped me in the
Royal Adelaide Hospital, I can't thank enough. I was then supported by great
nurses importantly in hospital after for rehabilitation and that was
absolutely fantastic. I couldn't thank than any more than I can today. After
that it was “slow down, Peter.” I'm sorry, I'm still training. I still do
everything.  
  
  
The simple fact is don't be scared of a heart attack, get it checked before it
actually happens. I do believe that, you know, we've got the ways and means
and of course now with the Minister supporting us with the funding for the
heart checks. I do thank him. I get a bit of emotional about this because that
is very important. I've known a lot of people. I've known a lot of people that
have died importantly, because of heart attacks and one of my best friends
died last week. So. I thank you very much.  
  
  
**BUTLER:** Thanks, Peter.  
  
  
**JOURNALIST:** Minister, how much will the Medicare heart health checks cost
the Budget?

  
**BUTLER:** Those numbers will be available and published on Tuesday night by
Treasurer Chalmers and there will be a full accounting for all of the
decisions that we’re making to improve the health of Australians, including
this one.

  
**JOURNALIST:** And what amendments will be made to the First Nations people
around these heart health checks?

  
**BUTLER:** In addition to extending the basic heart health assessment - as
the Heart Foundation has said, it has provided such support for 450,000
Australians. We are also amending the First Nations heart health assessment to
provide that it can be delivered within 12 months of a broader health
assessment, which has been pointed out to us by First Nations Health groups as
an anomaly in the system right now. So, this will also broaden the
availability of very important heart health checks for First Nations
Australians.

  
**JOURNALIST:** National Cabinet has endorsed the Interim Report looking at
overseas health workers. Is that an endorsement of the recommendations and
will they be going into effect?  

**BUTLER:** That’s right. National Cabinet - the Prime Minister, Premiers and
Chief Ministers have given us as a group of Health Ministers, essentially a
direction to implement the Interim Report from Robyn Kruk, who was asked by
the National Cabinet to conduct a review of overseas trained doctors, nurses
and health workers and how we can get them into the country more quickly, more
seamlessly, and get them onto the ground, onto the floor delivering really
important health care. So already as Health Ministers, we've had an initial
discussion about how we do that.

  
**JOURNALIST:** On 60-day prescription, the Pharmacy Guild is saying there are
158 medications proposed for double dispensing whereas you're saying there’s
only and seven, and this is the context of a possible shortage. Which number
is correct?

  
**BUTLER:** I'd advise people to take advice not from the pharmacy lobby, but
from the medicines authority themselves, who are telling me that of the list
of 320 odd medicines, which will be available for 60-day dispensing, halving
the cost of those medicines for those 6 million patients, only seven of them
are currently experiencing a shortage without some alternative brand or
formulation available to them. Now from time to time, there will be brand
shortages, these will not be impacted by 60-day dispensing, because as
everyone who thinks about this for more than three or four minutes knows, this
change will not impact at all the number of tablets being prescribed over a
given period. It will simply mean that people can get two packs over two
months instead of one pack every single month. So, I really, really do caution
the pharmacy lobby against this frankly dishonest and pretty cynical scare
campaign that they're running and get behind a program that is going to halve
the cost of medicines for 6 million Australians with chronic disease, many of
them who are on low and fixed incomes.

Tags:

  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

