Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Workforce Incentive Program](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program)

[Workforce Incentive Program](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program)

# Workforce Incentive Program Practice Stream

The Practice Stream provides financial incentives to help general practices
with the cost of engaging nurses, allied health professionals and/or
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health workers and health practitioners.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Workforce Incentive Program Practice Stream&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Workforce Incentive Program Practice Stream&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream)

Loading...

On this page

## About the Practice Stream

The Workforce Incentive Program (WIP) Practice Stream encourages
multidisciplinary and team-based models of care by providing financial
incentives to general practices to engage a range of health professionals,
including:

  * nurses
  * allied health professionals
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health workers and health practitioners.

The Practice Stream provides primary care practices with more flexibility to
respond to local community needs and gaps in services. This includes helping
practices to meet the increasingly complex health needs of older people and
people living with chronic and complex conditions. It is designed to
complement and strengthen existing services, not replace or duplicate them.

Practice Stream payments assist general practices with the cost of engaging
eligible health professionals. They are not intended to cover the whole cost
of engaging eligible health professionals.

## How the Practice Stream works

Services Australia administers the Practice Stream for us ([see Services
Australia’s program
page](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/workforce-incentive-program-wip-practice-
stream)).

When a practice participates in the Practice Stream, it must report to
Services Australia on the health professionals it is engaging and their
average weekly hours.

Every quarter, Services Australia sends a statement to the practice to be
confirmed or corrected. This includes details of hours worked during that
quarter by eligible health professionals employed by the practice. Once
Services Australia receives the returned completed statement, it pays the
incentive directly to the practice.

See [Practice Stream obligations](/our-work/workforce-incentive-
program/practice-stream/obligations "Practice Stream obligations") for
details.

## Eligible practices

Practices that are eligible for the Practice Stream are:

  * general practices
  * Aboriginal Medical Services
  * Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services.

There are specific eligibility requirements for this payment. These include:

  * general practice accreditation requirements
  * employment of at least one full-time or part-time general practitioner
  * engagement of at least one eligible health professional
  * eligibility for the Practice Incentives Program (PIP) – if a PIP consenting practice
  * a specified amount of public liability insurance, as set out in the guidelines.

[Read the full eligibility requirements](/resources/publications/workforce-
incentive-program-guidelines "Workforce Incentive Program guidelines") in the
WIP guidelines before applying.

Eligible practices in all locations can participate. Rural loadings are
applied to practices in rural, regional and remote areas of Australia.

## Eligible health professionals

Eligible health professionals under the Practice Stream include:

  * nurse practitioners
  * registered nurses
  * enrolled nurses
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health workers
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health practitioners
  * specified allied health professionals, including: 
    * audiologists
    * chiropractors
    * diabetes educators
    * dietitians/nutritionists
    * exercise physiologists
    * occupational therapists
    * orthoptists
    * orthotists/prosthetists
    * osteopaths
    * pharmacists (non-dispensing role)
    * physiotherapists
    * podiatrists
    * psychologists
    * social workers
    * speech pathologists.

All health professionals must hold the minimum qualifications set out in the
[WIP guidelines](/resources/publications/workforce-incentive-program-
guidelines "Workforce Incentive Program guidelines"), and maintain the
required level of professional indemnity insurance.

## Engaging or employing a health professional

Under the Practice Stream, practices have the flexibility to decide what type
of health professional(s) they engage. The practice and the health
professional decide the form of engagement. It could be direct, contracted or
casual employment. Practices may choose to contract existing allied health
services already operating within the community.

For example, based on community need, a practice could:

  * employ a nurse to work specified hours per week at the practice
  * engage a local allied health professional in private practice to provide services one day per week to practice patients who cannot afford private services
  * engage a nurse or allied health professional to provide group-based education sessions, such as education on diabetes management.

## Ineligible services

Some services are not eligible for this payment, including:

  * after-hours services
  * any hours worked by health professionals where the practice already receives support to pay them. This includes: 
    * time billed to Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) services ([unless an exemption applies](/resources/publications/workforce-incentive-program-guidelines "Workforce Incentive Program guidelines")).
    * support received from other Australian Government or state/territory funding or private funding.

## Incentive payments

The maximum incentive payment under the Practice Stream is $125,000 per year.
The amount paid to each practice depends on the:

  * size of the practice, measured in [Standardised Whole Patient Equivalent (SWPE)](/node/18118#practice-size)
  * hours worked by eligible health professionals at the practice
  * location of the practice.

To receive the maximum annual incentive payment, a practice must have a SWPE
value of 5,000 or above and engage eligible health professionals for a
combined minimum of 63 hours and 20 minutes per week.

Different incentive amounts apply to different health professionals.

Loadings apply for some practices. For details, see [Practice Stream incentive
payments](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream/incentive-
payments "Practice Stream incentive payments").

## Resources

[
![""](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2023-02/workforce-
incentive-program-guidelines.jpg?itok=h2gV6lai)
](/resources/publications/workforce-incentive-program-guidelines)

###  [Workforce Incentive Program guidelines
](/resources/publications/workforce-incentive-program-guidelines?language=en)

These guidelines set out how the Workforce Incentive Program operates,
covering eligibility, how to apply and how payments are calculated.

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Workforce Incentive Program – Practice Stream contact
](/contacts/workforce-incentive-program-practice-stream-contact?language=en)

Contact us (the Department of Health) with questions about eligibility for the
WIP Practice Stream. Contact Services Australia with questions about payment
assessment and calculation enquiries.

Services Australia

[wippractice@servicesaustralia.gov.au](mailto:wippractice@servicesaustralia.gov.au)

Health

[WIP@health.gov.au](mailto:WIP@health.gov.au)

Services Australia

[1800 222 032](tel:1800 222 032)

Services Australia

[1300 587 696](tel:1300 587 696)

Last updated:

19 March 2021

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Workforce Incentive Program](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Workforce Incentive Program](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program)

  * [About the Workforce Incentive Program](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/about)
  * [Doctor Stream](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/doctor-stream)
  * [Practice Stream](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream)
    * [Payments](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream/incentive-payments)
    * [Practice obligations](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream/obligations)
    * [Apply](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream/apply)
    * [Opt out](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream/opt-out)
  * [Resources](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

