Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Pathology

Pathology involves using medical laboratory tests to help diagnose disease.
Find out about pathology in Australia, who can provide pathology services and
what we’re doing about pathology accreditation and compliance.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Pathology&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Pathology&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)

Loading...

###  [ Learn about pathology ](/topics/pathology/about-pathology)

Learn about pathology tests, costs, who can provide pathology services and the
laws and regulations that apply.

###  [ What we're doing about pathology ](/topics/pathology/what-were-doing-
about-pathology)

We develop policy and hold regulatory responsibilities for pathology in
Australia. Learn about our work in this area.

###  [ Quality Use of Pathology Program ](/our-work/quality-use-of-pathology-
program)

This program funds projects that improve the management, delivery or use of
Medicare pathology services.

###  [ Pathology accreditation ](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-
work/accreditation/pathology-accreditation-standards/national-pathology-
accreditation-scheme)

Learn about accreditation processes for pathology laboratories in Australia.

[View all pathology information](/topics/pathology/about-pathology)

## Latest news

![Processing of self-collection samples – Cover
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/images/news/2022/06/processing-
of-self-collection-samples.jpeg?itok=xH4pp5GN)

## Processing of self-collection samples

Important information for healthcare providers and pathology laboratories
regarding changes to the Cervical Screening Test from 1 July 2022.

[Find out more](/news/processing-of-self-collection-samples)

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![Case study – Billing of diagnostic and pathology services in emergency
departments and for public
patients](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/08/case-study-billing-
of-diagnostic-and-pathology-services-in-emergency-departments-and-for-public-
patients.jpg)

### [Case study – Billing of diagnostic and pathology services in emergency
departments and for public patients ](/resources/publications/case-study-
billing-of-diagnostic-and-pathology-services-in-emergency-departments-and-for-
public-patients?language=en)

1 August 2022

Fact sheet

This case study about diagnostic and pathology services will help you improve
your Medicare billing practices.

![Quality Use of Pathology Program Project Grants \(2021-2023\) GO5049 –
Feedback for
applicants](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/07/quality-use-of-
pathology-program-qupp-project-grants-2021-23.png)

### [Quality Use of Pathology Program (QUPP) project grants 2021–23
](/resources/publications/quality-use-of-pathology-program-qupp-project-
grants-2021-23?language=en)

14 July 2022

Guideline

This document provides feedback to applicants for the Quality Use of Pathology
Program Projects grant round (2021–23) GO5049 that was open on GrantConnect
from 3 September 2021 to 19 October 2021.

![ Pathology test guide for cervical and vaginal testing - Cover
image](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/07/national-cervical-
screening-program-pathology-test-guide-for-cervical-and-vaginal-testing.png)

### [National Cervical Screening Program – Pathology test guide for cervical
and vaginal testing ](/resources/publications/national-cervical-screening-
program-pathology-test-guide-for-cervical-and-vaginal-testing?language=en)

1 July 2022

Guideline

This table shows the guidelines for pathology testing of cervical and vaginal
samples.

![Cover image for Quality Use of Pathology Program \(QUPP\) – Final report for
the Common Sense Pathology 2018–2021
project](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/06/quality-use-of-
pathology-program-qupp-final-report-for-the-common-sense-
pathology-2018-2021-project.png)

### [Quality Use of Pathology Program (QUPP) – Final report for the Common
Sense Pathology 2018–2021 project ](/resources/publications/quality-use-of-
pathology-program-qupp-final-report-for-the-common-sense-
pathology-2018-2021-project?language=en)

August 2021

Report

This final report outlines what The Royal College of Pathologists of
Australasia Common Sense Pathology project achieved. The QUPP funded this
project between 2018 and 2021.

[View more resources](/topics/pathology/pathology-
resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

