Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Quality Use of Pathology Program

The Quality Use of Pathology Program (QUPP) provides grants for projects that
improve the management, delivery or use of Medicare pathology services.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Quality Use of Pathology Program &url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/quality-use-of-pathology-program)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/quality-use-of-pathology-program)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Quality Use of Pathology Program &body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/quality-use-of-pathology-program)

Loading...

On this page

## About the program

The program provides grants for projects that support:

  * quality pathology referrals
  * quality pathology practices
  * quality consumer-focused initiatives.

It funds projects that are in line with the:

  * QUPP objectives
  * strategic direction of the [National Pathology Accreditation Scheme](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-work/accreditation/national-pathology-accreditation-npa-scheme#:~:text=The%20National%20Pathology%20Accreditation%20%28NPA%29%20Scheme%20provides%20for,pathology%20accreditation%20standards%20About%20the%20pathology%20accreditation%20standards).

## Goals

The program aims to support and encourage the pathology sector to innovate and
improve through:

  * evidence-based referral practices that maximise health benefits for patients and inform consumers, supported by strong relationships and processes between referrers and pathology providers
  * initiatives that support professional practice standards that meet consumer and referrer needs and provide high-quality, efficient and cost-effective pathology services
  * accessible and coordinated consumer-focused initiatives that promote informed choice and meet consumer needs.

## Who we work with

The [Quality Use of Pathology Committee](/committees-and-groups/quality-use-
of-pathology-committee "Quality Use of Pathology Committee") provides advice
to the Australian Government on the QUPP.

## Apply for funding

Grant application opportunities are advertised on
[GrantConnect](https://www.grants.gov.au/) when available.

Read the [feedback to applicants for the 2021–23 grant
round](/resources/publications/quality-use-of-pathology-program-qupp-project-
grants-2021-23 "Quality Use of Pathology Program \(QUPP\) project grants
2021–23 ").

## Current funded projects

### Developing interpretive quality assurance module for genomic testing for
childhood syndromes and intellectual disability

The Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia Quality Assurance Programs is
developing and piloting a quality assurance program. The program will improve
and standardise publicly funded genomic test analysis, interpretation, results
and reporting for childhood syndromes and intellectual disability.

### Quality use of non-invasive prenatal rhesus factor D testing

The Australian and New Zealand Society of Blood Transfusion will identify and
map all steps in the pathology testing process for rhesus factor D (RhD)
negative women.

This project will:

  * standardise and improve clinical testing pathways to help general practitioners (GPs), obstetricians and pathologists
  * ensure use of anti-D prophylaxis is appropriate and in line with guidance from the [National Blood Authority](https://www.blood.gov.au/).

### Royal College of Pathologists Australasia manual 2022–2023

The Royal College of Pathologists Australasia (RCPA) will revise and publish
an electronic version of its RCPA Manual.

This will provide a portable, accessible, comprehensive resource to help
referring health practitioners select pathology tests appropriately and
efficiently.

### Developing an external quality assurance program to measure the quality of
genomic pathology reports

The Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia Quality Assurance Programs
will develop an external quality assurance program for genomic pathology
reports to:

  * identify the discipline-specific requirements for genomic pathology
  * objectively measure the quality of genomic pathology reports using best practice guidelines or, where they exist, standards.

### Self-collection vs practitioner collection project 2

The Victorian Cytology Service will compare the sensitivity, specificity and
concordance of human papillomavirus (HPV) nucleic acid amplification testing
of self-collected specimens with those specimens collected by a clinician.

### ‘Testing, testing 123’ – a multifaceted educational intervention for GPs
to promote best practice in pathology ordering

Medcast will develop and publish an online educational resource for GPs, to
improve quality of care for patients while reducing costs from low-value test
ordering.

### The Emergency Department Pathology Order Support Tool (ED POST) – an
intelligent and dynamic electronic tool to facilitate appropriate and
effective use of pathology

Macquarie University will design, trial and implement an Emergency Department
Pathology Order Support Tool (ED POST). This tool will support appropriate,
safe and effective use of pathology.

## Reports from past projects

![Cover image of common sense pathology QUPP-funded
project](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2022/06/quality-
use-of-pathology-program-qupp-reports-of-completed-projects.png?itok=lxJnuWs0)

###  [Quality Use of Pathology Program (QUPP) – Reports of completed projects
](/resources/collections/quality-use-of-pathology-program-qupp-reports-of-
completed-projects?language=en)

This collection contains reports from completed projects that were funded by
the Quality Use of Pathology Program. The Quality Use of Pathology Committee
has endorsed these reports.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Quality Use of Pathology Program contact ](/contacts/quality-use-of-
pathology-program-contact?language=en)

Contact us for information about the Quality Use of Pathology Program or
Quality Use of Pathology Committee.

[QUPP@health.gov.au](mailto:QUPP@health.gov.au)

[Quality Use of Pathology Program
(QUPP)](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pathology-
qupp-index)

Last updated:

24 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Supporting quality in GP pathology requesting](/our-work/supporting-quality-in-gp-pathology-requesting)
  * [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

