Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

[Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health)

# Health technologies and digital health initiatives and programs

A list of programs we fund that are relevant to health technologies and
digital health.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Health technologies and digital health initiatives and programs&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/initiatives-and-programs)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/initiatives-and-programs)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Health technologies and digital health initiatives and programs&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/initiatives-and-programs)

Loading...

## Initiatives and programs

### [2020–25 National Health Reform Agreement (NHRA) ](/our-
work/2020-25-national-health-reform-agreement-nhra?language=en)

Signed by all Australian governments, the 2020–25 Addendum to National Health
Reform Agreement (NHRA) aims to improve health outcomes for all Australians
and ensure our health system is sustainable.

### [Better Access initiative ](/our-work/better-access-
initiative?language=en)

The Better Access initiative gives Medicare rebates to help people access
mental health professionals and care, regardless of where they live. Find out
how the initiative works, who is eligible and how you can access supports.

### [Electronic prescribing ](/our-work/electronic-prescribing?language=en)

Electronic prescribing is now widely available. It provides an option for
prescribers and their patients to use an electronic prescription as an
alternative to paper prescriptions. Paper prescriptions are still available.

### [Genomics Health Futures Mission ](/our-work/genomics-health-futures-
mission?language=en)

The Genomics Health Futures Mission is investing $500.1 million in genomic
research. It will improve testing and diagnosis for many diseases, help
personalise treatment options to better target and improve health outcomes,
and reduce unnecessary interventions and health costs.

### [Health Products Portal program ](/our-work/health-products-portal-
program?language=en)

We are enhancing the Health Products Portal (HPP) to provide a single digital
channel for industry to interact with us about regulated and reimbursed
health-related products and services.

### [Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review ](/our-
work/health-technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review?language=en)

The Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Policy and Methods Review is an
opportunity to ensure Australia’s HTA policy is constantly improving under
evaluation.

### [National Real Time Prescription Monitoring (RTPM) ](/our-work/national-
real-time-prescription-monitoring-rtpm?language=en)

The Real Time Prescription Monitoring (RTPM) is a nationally implemented
system, designed to monitor the prescribing and dispensing of controlled
medicines with the aim of reducing their misuse in Australia.

### [Stoma Appliance Scheme ](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme?language=en)

The Stoma Appliance Scheme provides free stoma appliances and products to
people who have a stoma (ostomates). This helps them live their lives normally
without added financial stress. Find out how the scheme works, how to access
it and how to get a product on the schedule.

[View all initiatives and programs](/resources?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC)

Last updated:

13 April 2022

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health)

  * [About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about)
  * [What we do](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/what-we-do)
  * [Health technology assessments (HTAs)](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments)
  * [News](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

