Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)

[Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health)

# Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health reporting

Where to find reports on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health, how we
collect and use standard sets of data to help us track progress towards
Closing the Gap health targets, and how Indigenous health services can sign up
for newsletters alerting them to changes in reporting processes.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health reporting&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health reporting&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)

Loading...

On this page

## **Australian Indigenous Health InfoNet**

We provide core services funding for the [Australian Indigenous
HealthInfoNet](https://healthinfonet.ecu.edu.au/).

HealthInfoNet makes research and other information readily available in a form
that is useful for people working in the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
health sector.

By sharing Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander expertise, HealthInfoNet
helps to:

  * support capacity building and knowledge-informed decision-making within the health workforce
  * promote evidence-informed practice across sectors
  * encourage greater integration between policy, practice and research.

## **Reports**

You can find reports related to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health
from:

  * [Australian Government Department of Health](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications?f%5B0%5D=field_publication_type%3A201&f%5B1%5D=field_related_health_topics%3A1471)
  * [Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW)](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/population-groups/indigenous-australians/reports)
  * [Health Performance Framework](https://www.indigenoushpf.gov.au/publications)
  * [HealthInfoNet](https://healthinfonet.ecu.edu.au/key-resources/publications/).

## **Newsletters**

We also produce newsletters to keep stakeholders updated about changes:

  * [Health Data Portal newsletter](/using-our-websites/subscriptions/subscribe-to-health-data-portal-newsletters "Subscribe to Health Data Portal newsletters")
  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Partnership Forums updates](/resources/collections/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health-partnership-forums-updates "Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Partnership Forums updates").

## **Health data collection and review**

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health services and other providers
funded by the Indigenous Australians’ Health Programme regularly report 3 sets
of data to us. These are the:

  * [National Key Performance Indicators (nKPIs)](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting/nkpis "National Key Performance Indicators for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander primary health care"), in January and July each year
  * [Online Services Report (OSR),](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting/osr "Online Services Report \(OSR\)") in July each year
  * Health Care Provider Number (HCP) report, in July each year.

We use this data to:

  * track and monitor Closing the Gap health targets
  * monitor uptake of Medicare services by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
  * develop and manage evidence-based policy and programs to improve the health of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
  * inform our longer-term strategic planning
  * shape our investments in Indigenous primary health care.

### **National Key Performance Indicator data**

The [nKPI data](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-
health/reporting/nkpis "National Key Performance Indicators for Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander primary health care") provides a measure of maternal
and child health, chronic disease management and preventive health outcomes.
Over 230 organisations have submitted nKPI data since June 2012. The AIHW uses
this data to produce a range of [indicator-based
reports](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/population-groups/indigenous-
australians/indicators) and [annual reports on primary
care](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/indigenous-australians/indigenous-
primary-health-care-results-osr-nkpi/overview/about-this-report).

### **Online Services Report data**

The [OSR data](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-
health/reporting/osr "Online Services Report \(OSR\)") provides a measure of
activity, volume and coverage of a range of health services delivered to
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

### **Health Care Provider Number data**

The HCP data reports changes to Medicare provider numbers for staff who worked
at Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services in the previous year,
including:

  * doctors
  * nurse practitioners
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health practitioners
  * allied health staff
  * optometrists
  * dental professionals.

We use this to estimate the number and value of services claimed from Medicare
under the [special Medicare arrangements](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health/primary-care/medicare-and-medicines "Access to Medicare
and pharmaceutical benefits for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people").

### **Reviews and redesign**

Over the years, we have moved from paper-based reporting to electronic
reporting through the [Health Data Portal](https://dataportal.health.gov.au).
Regular reviews mean that we are continually improving the data reporting
process.

The AIHW conducted a comprehensive review of the nKPI and OSR data in 2019.
Since the release of the review’s recommendations, we commissioned the [nKPI
and OSR Implementation Roadmap](/resources/publications/nkpi-and-osr-roadmap-
recommendations "nKPI and OSR Roadmap Recommendations") to ensure that these
datasets remain current and useful.

We are working with the [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Services
Data Advisory Group (HS DAG)](/committees-and-groups/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health-services-data-advisory-group "Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander Health Services Data Advisory Group") to implement the
roadmap’s 36 recommendations.

A [national baseline data quality audit](/resources/publications/aboriginal-
community-controlled-health-services-data-quality-assessment-and-support-
stage-2 "Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services Data Quality
Assessment and Support – Stage 2") at the individual service level identified
issues affecting data quality and reporting in 2020. The audit found that 30%
of health services had effective and mature processes in place to collect,
sustain, improve and use their data. We are implementing the report’s
recommendations on how to support improved data management in health services.

## **Health Data Portal**

The [Health Data Portal](https://dataportal.health.gov.au) is a web-based tool
that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Services use to submit
nKPIs, OSR and HCP data. It has been co-designed with the sector.

Users access the portal with their [myGovID and the Relationship Authorisation
Manager (RAM)](https://www.abr.gov.au/general-information/accessing-our-
online-services-with-mygovid-and-ram). We worked with stakeholders to design
the portal to meet their needs and be easy to use. The portal connects with a
range of clinical information systems that Indigenous health services use in
their practices. View mapping documents for:

  * [Best Practice](http://kb.bpsoftware.net/au/bppremier/jade/Content/ThirdPartyInterfaces/nKPI.htm?Highlight=nkpi)
  * [Communicare](https://portal.healthconnex.com.au/)
  * [MedicalDirector](https://www.medicaldirector.com/help/#t=topics-insights%2FInsights_Reporting_nKPI_OSR_and_HCP_Reports.htm&rhsearch=nkpi&rhhlterm=nkpi&rhsyns=%20)
  * [MMEx](https://manual.mmex.net.au/manual:nkpiandosr).

Primary health care services can [subscribe to our monthly Health Data Portal
newsletter](/using-our-websites/subscriptions/subscribe-to-health-data-portal-
newsletters "Subscribe to Health Data Portal newsletters") to keep up to date
with improvements to the portal.

We welcome [feedback on the
portal](https://dataportal.health.gov.au/wps/portal/dataportalcontent/contactus)
at any time.

### **Health services using their own data**

We have developed and integrated data analytics capabilities using the Qlik
Sense platform with the [Health Data
Portal](https://dataportal.health.gov.au). Services can access their nKPI data
via the Qlik Interactive Reports link in the Health Data Portal to:

  * see graphs of their nKPI data back to December 2014
  * view near-real-time reports on their indicator data, overlaid with a wide range of comparator data
  * create reports with comparison groups through various filters
  * analyse their data trends
  * compare their latest results to those of other Health Services as part of their continuous quality improvement activities.

### **Data ownership**

Primary care health services continue to own the data they submit to the
Health Data Portal. The Indigenous primary health care sector is developing a
set of data governance arrangements to outline conditions for collection,
review, storage and access of this data. Owning their data means that
Indigenous organisations can:

  * analyse their data
  * extract value from it to benefit their communities
  * actively control and monitor its release for other purposes.

## **Voluntary Indigenous Identifier (VII) Framework - Framework for the
Collection, Release, Use and Publication of Voluntary Indigenous Identifier
Data**

Since 2002, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have been able to
have their status recorded confidentially on a database called the Voluntary
Indigenous Identifier (VII). The VII is primarily used to estimate use of the
Medicare Benefits Scheme by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. This
information, grouped together for statistical or reporting purposes, is
published in a range of reports and is used to:

  * improve policies focused on access to health programs and services
  * target funding to specific areas of need
  * improve access to benefits and payments
  * improve the Department’s future health plans and policies for First Nations People.

The [Framework for the Collection, Release, Use and Publication of Voluntary
Indigenous Identifier Data](/resources/publications/voluntary-indigenous-
identifier-vii-framework "Voluntary Indigenous Identifier \(VII\) Framework")
(VII Data Framework) is a set of guidelines that direct how VII data is
collected and used. This document is intended for data users and potential
data users to set out the rules and principles used by the Department when
making decisions about the collection, release, use and publication of VII
data. It also sets out the legal and ethical obligations for data users, and
provides information about the quality of VII data and estimates of Medicare
data produced using the VII.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Indigenous reporting contact ](/contacts/indigenous-reporting-
contact?language=en)

Email us with questions or comments about Health's Indigenous data
collections. This includes updates to the national key performance indicators
and online services report.

[indigenousreporting@health.gov.au](mailto:indigenousreporting@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

23 August 2021

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-
torres-strait-islander-health)

  * [Status and determinants of health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/status-and-determinants)
  * [How we support health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/how-we-support-health)
  * [Who we work with](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/who-we-work-with-to-support-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)
  * [Lifestyle and family health support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support)
  * [Aged care support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/aged-care-support)
  * [Reporting](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)
    * [National Key Performance Indicators](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting/nkpis)
    * [Online Services Report](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting/osr)
  * [Research](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/research)
  * [News](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

