Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Immunisation

Immunisation is a simple, safe and effective way to protect you, your family
and others in the community from serious diseases. The National Immunisation
Program (NIP) provides free vaccines against a number of diseases, to increase
national immunisation rates and reduce vaccine preventable disease.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Immunisation&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation?language=und)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation?language=und)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Immunisation&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation?language=und)

Loading...

###  [ When to get vaccinated ](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated)

Find out when to get vaccinated and what vaccinations are provided for free.

###  [ Check the National Immunisation Schedule ](/topics/immunisation/when-
to-get-vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule)

The Schedule sets out free vaccinations given at specific times throughout
your life, from birth to adulthood.

###  [ Check immunisation history ](/topics/immunisation/getting-
vaccinated/check-immunisation-history)

Find out what vaccines you or your child has received and request an
immunisation history statement.

###  [ Find out about free vaccines ](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated)

Find out about free vaccines available through the National Immunisation
Program.

[View all immunisation information](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation)

![National Immunisation Program
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/nip_logo_transparent.png?itok=m7qkHlXF)

## National Immunisation Program

The National Immunisation Program (NIP) provides free essential vaccines to
protect eligible people against a range of diseases.

[Learn more about the NIP](/node/3381)

![Flu
tile](/sites/default/files/styles/h_image_16_9_medium/public/2023-05/fighting-
flu-starts-with-you.png?h=ae1281eb&itok=7HXy9783)

###  [ Influenza vaccination ](/influenza-vaccination)

Annual vaccination is the most important measure to prevent influenza and it
complications. The best way to protect against influenza is to get vaccinated
each year. The influenza vaccine is recommended for all people aged 6 months
and over. For some people the vaccine is free.

![Childhood vaccination tile
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_image_16_9_medium/public/2023-05/childhood-
immunisation-resizes_blur.png?h=316325aa&itok=PKABDj2y)

###  [ Childhood vaccination ](/childhood-immunisation)

Childhood immunisation is a safe, free and effective way to protect your kids
from serious diseases. On time vaccination will give your child the best
protection.

![Image that reads "Questions about vaccination"
](/sites/default/files/styles/h_image_16_9_medium/public/2023-05/questions_about_vaccination_tile.png?h=d08c1a74&itok=N-8LiDqZ)

###  [ Get all your questions answered ](/resources/publications/questions-
about-vaccination)

  * Why do we need vaccines?
  * What do vaccines do?
  * Are vaccines safe for my child?
  * Can my child be vaccinated and when should they be vaccinated?

## For health professionals

###  [ View the National Immunisation Schedule ](/topics/immunisation/when-to-
get-vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule)

The National Immunisation Program Schedule sets out the funded vaccines for
children, adolescents and adults at scheduled ages.

###  [ Plan catch-up immunisations ](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-
information-for-health-professionals/catch-up-immunisations)

Find out how to plan catch-up immunisations for patients who have delayed or
missed vaccine doses. Use the calculator to create a catch-up schedule for
children 0 to 10 years of age.

###  [ Use the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR)
](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-
professionals/using-the-australian-immunisation-register)

Find out how to use the AIR to record vaccines you give to your patients,
check which vaccines your patients may have had and if they are overdue for
any vaccines.

###  [ View the Australian Immunisation Handbook
](https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/)

The Australian Immunisation Handbook provides guidelines for healthcare
professionals about using vaccines safely and effectively.

[Immunisation information for health
professionals](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-
professionals)

## Immunisation program updates

Health professionals can sign up to receive the latest clinical updates and
guidance on the National Immunisation Program.

**[Subscribe](/using-our-websites/subscriptions/subscribe-to-national-
immunisation-program-nip-updates "Subscribe to National Immunisation Program
\(NIP\) updates")**

## Latest news

## Latest news

###  [ Protecting Older Australians – COVID-19 update 8 May 2023
](/news/newsletters/protecting-older-australians-
covid-19-update-8-may-2023?language=en)

In this issue, read about managing COVID-19, COVID-19 vaccination booster
doses, influenza vaccinations, accessing COVID-19 PCR testing through
Medicare, IPC Lead Nurse training grants, PPE winter deployment, and the ACCPA
Winter preparedness webinar.

10 May 2023

![Fighting flu starts with
you](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/2023-04/fighting-
flu-starts-with-you.png?itok=CxabIkTP)

###  [ Fighting flu starts with you ](/news/fighting-flu-starts-with-
you?language=en)

24 April 2023

###  [ The new COVID-19 and Influenza Immunisation History Statement
](/news/the-new-covid-19-and-influenza-immunisation-history-
statement?language=en)

20 April 2023

[View more news](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-
news?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC)

## Latest general public resources

## Latest resources - public

![COVID-19 vaccine rollout update – 26 May
2023](/sites/default/files/2023-05/covid-19-vaccine-rollout-
update-26-may-2023.png)

### [COVID-19 vaccine rollout update – 26 May 2023
](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccine-rollout-
update-26-may-2023?language=en)

26 May 2023

Presentation

This presentation, delivered on 26 May 2023, contains an update to Australia's
COVID-19 vaccine rollout.

![COVID-19 vaccination – vaccination data – 26 May
2023](/sites/default/files/2023-05/covid-19-vaccination-vaccination-
data-26-may-2023.png)

### [COVID-19 vaccination – vaccination data – 26 May 2023
](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-vaccination-
data-26-may-2023?language=en)

26 May 2023

Dataset

This data file contains statistical data about Australia's COVID-19
vaccinations.

![Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation \(ATAGI\) Annual
Statement on Immunisation 2023](/sites/default/files/2023-05/australian-
technical-advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi-annual-statement-on-
immunisation-2023.png)

### [Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI) Annual
Statement on Immunisation 2023 ](/resources/publications/australian-technical-
advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi-annual-statement-on-
immunisation-2023?language=en)

24 May 2023

Report

The ATAGI 2023 Annual Statement on Immunisation is the third publication in
this series. It covers key successes, trends and challenges in the use of
vaccines and control of vaccine-preventable diseases in 2023. It also signals
ATAGI’s priority actions for addressing key issues for 2023.

![Childhood vaccinations consumer brochure cover
image](/sites/default/files/2023-05/childhood-vaccinations-consumer-
brochure-a4-version.png)

### [Childhood vaccinations consumer brochure – A4 version ](/childhood-
immunisation/resources/publications/childhood-vaccinations-consumer-
brochure-a4-version?language=en)

23 May 2023

Brochure

This brochure provides information about the recommended vaccines available
free for children under the National Immunisation Program.

[View more general public resources](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-
resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

## Latest health sector resources

## Latest health sector resources

![Cover page Your questions answered – Childhood vaccinations –
FAQ](/system/files/2023-04/childhood-vaccinations-your-questions-answered-
faq.jpg)

### [Childhood vaccinations – Your questions answered – FAQ ](/childhood-
immunisation/resources/publications/childhood-vaccinations-your-questions-
answered-faq?language=en)

20 April 2023

Fact sheet

Have any questions about immunisation or vaccinations? We have compiled
answers to the most frequently asked questions about childhood vaccinations

![Be COVIDSAFE tile](/sites/default/files/2023-04/advisory-committee-for-the-
covid-19-response-for-people-with-disability-summary-of-
outcomes-3-april-2023_0.png)

### [Advisory Committee for the COVID-19 Response for People with Disability –
Summary of outcomes 3 April 2023 ](/resources/publications/advisory-committee-
for-the-covid-19-response-for-people-with-disability-summary-of-
outcomes-3-april-2023?language=en)

20 April 2023

Meeting minutes

This communique provides a summary of the advisory committee's meeting on 3
April 2023.

![Vaccine Clinic Finder \(VCF\) Connect – User Guide – March
2023](/sites/default/files/2023-03/vaccine-clinic-finder-vcf-connect-user-
guide-march-2023.jpg)

### [Vaccine Clinic Finder (VCF) Connect – User Guide – March 2023
](/resources/publications/vaccine-clinic-finder-vcf-connect-user-guide-
march-2023?language=en)

March 2023

Procedure

VCF Connect allows vaccination providers to self-manage vaccination service
information.

![Flu in kids can be serious – 2023 influenza poster for kids under
5](/sites/default/files/2023-03/flu-in-kids-can-be-serious-2023-influenza-
poster-for-kids-under-5.png)

### [Flu in kids can be serious – 2023 influenza poster for kids under 5
](/resources/publications/flu-in-kids-can-be-serious-2023-influenza-poster-
for-kids-under-5?language=en)

27 March 2023

Poster

This poster provides information about the influenza vaccine for parents of
young children and can be used in health care and community settings.

[View more health sector
resources](/resources?f%5B0%5D=h_audience%3AHealth%20sector&f%5B1%5D=h_related_health_topics%3AImmunisation&sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

## Did you know?

93.61%

immunisation coverage for all one year olds

95.76%

Immunisation coverage for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 5 year olds

94.20%

immunisation coverage for all 5 year olds

Source: Australian Immunisation Register (AIR) annualised quarterly reports,
December 2022.

[View more on immunisation coverage in
Australia](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-data/childhood-immunisation-
coverage)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

