Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Short-Term Restorative Care (STRC) Programme](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)

[Short-Term Restorative Care Programme](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-
strc-programme)

# Delivering services under the Short-Term Restorative Care (STRC) Programme

STRC providers deliver a range of care and services tailored to meet their
client’s goals to improve or maintain function. STRC services can be provided
in a residential aged care setting or a home care setting, or a combination of
both.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Delivering services under the Short-Term Restorative Care \(STRC\) Programme&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/delivering-services-under-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/delivering-services-under-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Delivering services under the Short-Term Restorative Care \(STRC\) Programme&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/delivering-services-under-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)

Loading...

On this page

## **Who are STRC services for?**

People are eligible to receive STRC Programme services if they are:

  * experiencing functional decline
  * at risk of losing their independence
  * able to improve their independence with STRC

## What are STRC services?

During an 8-week episode, STRC providers must ensure all clients receive:

  * timely and appropriate access to therapy, care and equipment
  * encouragement to actively participate
  * regular monitoring and evaluation

Full requirements on delivering STRC services are in Chapter 3 of the [Short-
Term Restorative Care Programme Manual](/resources/publications/short-term-
restorative-care-programme-manual "Short-Term Restorative Care Programme
Manual").

## Where can you provide STRC services?

There are 3 possible settings in which you can provide flexible care services:

  * residential
  * home
  * a combination of both

For a full list of services and your responsibilities with them, see Chapter 6
in the [Short-Term Restorative Care Programme
Manual](/resources/publications/short-term-restorative-care-programme-manual
"Short-Term Restorative Care Programme Manual").

## Services in a residential care setting

A permanent resident of an aged care home **cannot** receive STRC.

Approved STRC clients can temporarily move into an aged care home to receive
services, for part or all of the STRC episode.

Clients receiving STRC services in a residential aged care setting are able to
access the [same services as a permanent resident](/our-work/residential-aged-
care/delivering-services-under-residential-aged-care "Delivering services
under residential aged care"), including:

  * hotel-type services — services that meet day-to-day needs and facilities management 
  * care and support services — help with personal hygiene, grooming and moving around, and clinical care

Providers of residential-based STRC services must provide services that
reflect the intent of the STRC Programme. This includes assisting clients to
achieve an optimum level of independence and wellbeing, to minimise their care
needs over the longer term.

Fees may apply for certain services in a residential setting. Read about which
[services you can ask clients to pay a fee for](/our-work/short-term-
restorative-care-strc-programme/charging-for-short-term-restorative-care-strc-
programme-services "Charging for Short-Term Restorative Care \(STRC\)
Programme services").

## Services in a home care setting

STRC services can support senior Australians with complex care needs to live
independently in their own homes.

If a client is living at home, you can provide:

  * personal care — such as help with showering and hygiene
  * communication support — such as help with using the phone or hearing aids
  * dietary support — such as help with nutrition and preparing meals
  * skin care — such as bandages and dressings
  * continence care — such as disposable pads, commode chairs and bedpans
  * mobility support — such as crutches, handrails, wheelchairs and bed rails
  * support services — such as cleaning, gardening and minor home modifications
  * social support — such as help to take part in social activities and access emergency services
  * care management — such as reviewing agreements and making sure services are suitable
  * clinical care — such as nursing, podiatry, physiotherapy, occupational therapy and hearing services

## **Services in a combination of both settings**

Approved providers delivering in both settings are able to determine the mix
of care delivery settings. This must be within the defined period of STRC
support and in line with individual client needs.

## What you cannot provide through STRC

You **cannot** use STRC funds to provide:

  * a source of general income for the client
  * food, except for enteral feeding
  * permanent accommodation, including assistance with home purchase, mortgage payments or rent
  * payment of flexible care fees
  * payment of fees or charges for other types of care funded or jointly funded by the Australian Government
  * major home modifications or renovations
  * capital items that are not related to the client’s care needs, such as laptops, computers and mobile phones
  * travel and accommodation for holidays
  * entertainment activities, such as club memberships and tickets to sporting events
  * gambling activities
  * services and items covered by the [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) or the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](http://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home;jsessionid=1qf4bbdsfghge1s5ovtfbxu9bj)

## Suspending services

Clients can take up to 7 days leave, for any reason, from their episode.

Read more about [taking leave from the STRC Programme](/node/8839/#leave-from-
strc).

### Hospital visits

If a client goes to hospital for a day procedure or for an overnight stay, you
must provide STRC up to the point of admission. STRC restarts from the point
of discharge on the same day or the next day.

There is no break in the service episode or the payment of the [flexible care
subsidy](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/funding-for-the-
short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/flexible-care-subsidy-for-the-
short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme "Flexible care subsidy for the
Short-Term Restorative Care \(STRC\) Programme")

If a client:

  * has started their STRC episode and they are admitted to hospital for up to 7 days — they can return to the STRC episode once discharged from hospital
  * is admitted to hospital for longer than 7 days — they can no longer access the STRC episode once discharged from hospital

## Changing services

You are responsible for transitioning clients between residential and home
care settings if their needs change. The client may also exit STRC at any
time.

If clients feel they need different services while they are receiving STRC,
they should:

  * think about other types of services that could meet their needs, to include in their [care plan](/node/8839/#care-plans)
  * talk to you about changing their care plan to meet their needs

## What you need to do

[Add your details to My Aged Care](/our-work/my-aged-care/using-my-aged-
care/my-aged-care-for-service-providers "My Aged Care for service providers")
to let senior Australians know who you are and the services you provide.

You must include your services in [flexible care
agreements](/node/8839/#flexible-care-agreements).

Read more about delivering STRC services in the manual.

[ ![Cove image for the STAC program
manual](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2020/12/short-
term-restorative-care-programme-manual.png?itok=BohBaQdl)
](/resources/publications/short-term-restorative-care-programme-manual)

###  [Short-Term Restorative Care Programme Manual
](/resources/publications/short-term-restorative-care-programme-
manual?language=en)

This manual guides service delivery under the Short-Term Restorative Care
Programme.

Last updated:

22 January 2020

Tags:

  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Home Care Packages Program](/our-work/home-care-packages-program)
  * [Residential aged care](/our-work/residential-aged-care)
  * [Short-Term Restorative Care (STRC) Programme](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Short-Term Restorative Care Programme](/our-work/short-term-restorative-
care-strc-programme)

  * [About the program](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/about-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
  * [Before providing STRC services](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/before-providing-short-term-restorative-care-strc-services)
  * [Responsibilities of providers](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/responsibilities-of-short-term-restorative-care-strc-providers)
  * [Delivering services](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/delivering-services-under-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
  * [Funding](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/funding-for-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
  * [Charging for services](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/charging-for-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme-services)
  * [Managing the program](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/managing-the-short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme)
  * [Resources](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme/short-term-restorative-care-programme-strc-resources)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

