Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Better Access Evaluation

The Better Access initiative was evaluated and the final report received in
December 2022. The evaluation considered if Better Access improves outcomes
and increases access to mental health care. It also considered how we can
improve Better Access.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Better Access Evaluation&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/better-access-evaluation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/better-access-evaluation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Better Access Evaluation&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/better-access-evaluation)

Loading...

## About the evaluation

Better Access gives Medicare rebates to people with an assessed mental
disorder, so they can access appropriate mental health care. The evaluation
looked at how effective Better Access is in improving outcomes and increasing
access to mental health care.

You can read more about the [Better Access
evaluation](/resources/publications/better-access-evaluation-methodology
"Better Access Evaluation – Methodology").

The [final report](/resources/collections/evaluation-of-the-better-access-
initiative-final-report "Evaluation of the Better Access initiative – final
report") from the evaluation is now available.

## Why it is important

This evaluation will help the Australian Government decide if we need to
change Better Access, so it can achieve its aims. Better Access aims to
improve outcomes and increase access to mental health care.

## What happens now

The Government met with experts, organisations and people with lived
experience of mental illness to discuss the evaluation findings.

Read more about the [Mental Health Equity and Access Forum](/committees-and-
groups/mental-health-equity-and-access-forum "Mental Health Equity and Access
Forum").

## Who we worked with

The University of Melbourne conducted an independent evaluation of Better
Access.

A [Clinical Advisory Group](/committees-and-groups/better-access-evaluation-
clinical-advisory-group " Better Access Evaluation – Clinical Advisory Group")
gave input and feedback on the evaluation.

A [Stakeholder Engagement Group](/committees-and-groups/better-access-
evaluation-stakeholder-engagement-group "Better Access Evaluation –
Stakeholder engagement group") was consulted on the evaluation.

## Status

The evaluation started in August 2021 and completed in December 2022.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Better Access Evaluation ](/contacts/better-access-
evaluation?language=en)

Contact us if you have questions about the Better Access evaluation.

[psychologicalservices@health.gov.au](mailto:psychologicalservices@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

1 February 2023

Tags:

  * [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)
  * [Better Access initiative](/our-work/better-access-initiative)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

