Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)

[Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)

# Population health data

We hold different types of data about the health of Australians of all ages
and from all across the country. This gives us important evidence to help us
develop policy and programs that are effective at helping Australians stay
healthy.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Population health data&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/preventive-health/population-health-data)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/preventive-health/population-health-data)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Population health data&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/preventive-health/population-health-data)

Loading...

On this page

## **Why population health data is important**

A strong evidence base of population health data at different points in time
and over time gives us valuable insights into:

  * the health issues Australians are facing
  * the factors that affect health
  * what approaches work or don’t work in tackling disease and encouraging Australians to live a healthy lifestyle.

This helps us develop effective policy and programs that improve the health of
Australians of all ages, wherever they live.

## **Our population health data holdings**

We collate and publish health statistics, summaries and reports about:

  * [immunisation coverage](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-data/childhood-immunisation-coverage/immunisation-coverage-data-surveys-and-reports "Immunisation coverage data, surveys and reports") for children and adults
  * Australia’s [health workforce](https://hwd.health.gov.au/)
  * [Medicare use](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Medicare+Statistics-1) from 1984 onwards
  * [hospital use](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-casemix-data-collections-about), including non-admitted patient care, admitted patients, and elective surgery and emergency department waiting times
  * [patient, medical and financial casemix](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-casemix-reports) for public and private hospitals
  * [medicine use and the cost of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Pharmaceutical+Benefits+Scheme+%28PBS%29-3).

We apply a common sense [data access and release
policy](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Data-
Access-Release-Policy) supported by streamlined processes. This ensures public
access to useful, de-personalised data.

## **Other population health data**

We also use data created by other government agencies and partners to develop
policy and inform decisions:

  * The [Australian Bureau of Statistics](https://abs.gov.au) maintains [data on health conditions and risks, mental health, causes of death, disability and health services](https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/health). 
  * The [Australian Institute of Health and Welfare](https://www.aihw.gov.au) publishes reports and data on a broad range of topics, including a [biennial report on health of Australians](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/australias-health).
  * The Cancer Council Victoria conducts a survey on [substance use among secondary school students](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/australian-secondary-school-students-alcohol-and-drug-assad-survey-2017) every 3 years.

### **Data Integration Partnership for Australia**

The [Data Integration Partnership for Australia](https://pmc.gov.au/public-
data/data-integration-partnership-australia) worked to build and expand data
assets across government.

As a member of the [Social, Health and Welfare
Unit](https://pmc.gov.au/public-data/data-integration-partnership-
australia/social-health-and-welfare-analytical-unit-shwau), we use the
education, health and welfare data to:

  * develop more effective policy interventions
  * design better services
  * improve program delivery.

The Australian Immunisation Register has been linked to the ABS’s Multi-Agency
Data Integration Project (AIR-MADIP) to allow more complex immunisation
analysis and reporting by population characteristics to inform policy
decision-making and evaluation.

More information is available at [Australian Immunisation Register linked to
the Multi-Agency Data Integration Project](/our-work/australian-immunisation-
register-linked-to-the-multi-agency-data-integration-project "Australian
Immunisation Register linked to the Multi-Agency Data Integration Project").

Last updated:

23 March 2022

Tags:

  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)

  * [About preventive health](/topics/preventive-health/about)
  * [Population health studies](/topics/preventive-health/population-health-studies)
  * [Population health data](/topics/preventive-health/population-health-data)
  * [News](/topics/preventive-health/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/preventive-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/preventive-health/preventive-health-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

