Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)

[Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-
care)

# Chronic disease support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people

Chronic disease is one of the main factors behind the gap in life expectancy
between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and non-Indigenous
Australians. We fund a range of programs to prevent, detect and manage chronic
conditions.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Chronic disease support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Chronic disease support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support)

Loading...

On this page

Along with our [support for primary care services](/topics/aboriginal-and-
torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care "Primary care for Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people"), there are general programs providing care for
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people with chronic diseases:

  * [Medical Outreach Indigenous Chronic Diseases program](/our-work/medical-outreach-indigenous-chronic-diseases-program "Medical Outreach Indigenous Chronic Diseases Program") – supports multi-disciplinary teams in health outreach services.
  * [Integrated Team Care program](/our-work/integrated-team-care-program "Integrated Team Care program") – uses regional teams to help Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people get coordinated primary health care when they need it. This can be from Indigenous health services or mainstream services.
  * [Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive](/our-work/practice-incentives-program-indigenous-health-incentive "Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive") – supports best practice management and follow up care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people with a chronic disease.

We also fund programs that focus on key conditions that affect Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people.

## Diabetes

One of the goals of our [National Diabetes
Strategy](/resources/publications/australian-national-diabetes-
strategy-2016-2020 "Australian National Diabetes Strategy 2016–2020") is to
reduce the impact of diabetes among Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people.

The [Quality Assurance for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Medical
Services](/our-work/quality-assurance-for-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-
islander-medical-services-qaams-pathology-program "Quality Assurance for
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Medical Services \(QAAMS\) pathology
program") (QAAMS) program provides rapid, on-site diabetes testing in many
locations across Australia. Many of the QAAMS sites are in rural and remote
areas. These tests provide a result within minutes, meaning patients can get
their results during the same appointment.

## Smoking

The [Tackling Indigenous Smoking](/our-work/tackling-indigenous-smoking
"Tackling Indigenous Smoking") (TIS) program aims to improve life expectancy
among Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people by reducing the harm from
tobacco use. Local organisations run activities designed to reduce smoking
rates. The program provides resources and tools to support these activities.

## Heart disease

The rate of deaths from heart disease in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people has fallen by half in the past 20 years. However, heart disease is
still the leading cause of death, despite being highly preventable if detected
early and managed with lifestyle changes and medication.

High risk of heart disease begins early for Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander people. To prevent heart disease, it’s important to identify risk
factors early and manage them well.

A toolkit is available to help health professionals talk about heart disease
with their patients. It contains information about prevention, identification
and management of heart disease.

See the [Cardiovascular disease risk communication with Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander Peoples: Toolkit for health
professionals](/resources/publications/cardiovascular-disease-risk-
communication-with-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-peoples
"Cardiovascular disease risk communication with Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander Peoples").

### Rheumatic heart disease

[Rheumatic heart disease (RHD)](https://www.rhdaustralia.org.au/what-
rheumatic-heart-disease) is a preventable condition. In Australia, it mostly
affects Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children – particularly those in
rural and remote places. In RHD, the valves of the heart become damaged after
a person has had acute rheumatic fever (ARF). ARF is caused by an autoimmune
reaction to an infection with a bacteria known as Strep A.

The Australian Government is committed to ending RHD as a public health issue
by 2030. To achieve this, the Australian Government is making significant
investments to address ARF and RHD through:

  * the Rheumatic Fever Strategy
  * developing a vaccine against Strep A (funded through the [Indigenous Health Research Fund](/our-work/indigenous-health-research-fund "Indigenous Health Research Fund")).

The Rheumatic Fever Strategy includes:

  * state-based register and control programs in the NT, WA, SA and QLD, to improve detection, monitoring and management of ARF and RHD
  * developing clinical guidelines to prevent, diagnose and manage ARF and RHD
  * developing resources and providing education and training for healthcare professionals, communities, and for individuals with these conditions and their carers
  * piloting activities in high-risk communities to help prevent new cases of ARF
  * national analysis and reporting on the data from state-based registers.

For more on RHD, see [RHDAustralia](https://www.rhdaustralia.org.au/).

## Kidney disease

Kidney disease is a leading cause of death and disability for Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people. We have [funded Kidney Health
Australia](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-
conditions/what-were-doing-about-kidney-disease "What we’re doing about kidney
disease") to work with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people to create
specific guidelines for Indigenous kidney disease.

## Cancer

Our portfolio agency Cancer Australia has developed an [optimal care pathway
for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders with
cancer](https://www.canceraustralia.gov.au/publications-and-resources/cancer-
australia-publications/optimal-care-pathway-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-
islander-people-cancer) and an [Our Mob and
Cancer](https://www.ourmobandcancer.gov.au/) online interactive resource.

Our cancer screening programs have developed resources for Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people.

### Breast cancer

[BreastScreen Australia](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program
"BreastScreen Australia Program") has resources:

  * [in English](/resources?f\[0\]=field_related_initiatives:7420&f\[1\]=field_related_health_topics:1471), for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
  * [translated](/resources/translated?f\[0\]=field_related_initiatives:7420&f\[1\]=field_related_health_topics:1471) into several Indigenous languages.

### Bowel cancer

The [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-
screening-program "National Bowel Cancer Screening Program") has
[resources](/resources/collections/resources-for-families-and-communities-
indigenous-bowel-screening "Resources for families and communities –
Indigenous bowel screening") for families and communities and [health
professional](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-
program/indigenous/health-professionals "For health professionals with
Indigenous patients") to support Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
to do the bowel cancer screening test.

### Cervical cancer

The [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-
screening-program "National Cervical Screening Program") has resources:

  * [in English](/resources?f\[0\]=field_related_initiatives:7421&f\[1\]=field_related_health_topics:1471), for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
  * [translated](/resources/translated?f\[0\]=field_related_initiatives:7421&f\[1\]=field_related_health_topics:1471) into several Indigenous languages.

## More information and resources

We also fund programs to [support a healthy lifestyle](/topics/aboriginal-and-
torres-strait-islander-health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support "Lifestyle
and family health support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people"),
which can prevent some chronic diseases.

Australian Indigenous HealthInfoNet has more information chronic diseases and
other [health topics](https://healthinfonet.ecu.edu.au/learn/health-topics),
including:

  * publications
  * policies
  * programs
  * organisations
  * courses
  * events
  * funding.

Last updated:

21 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-
torres-strait-islander-health)

  * [Status and determinants of health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/status-and-determinants)
  * [How we support health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/how-we-support-health)
  * [Who we work with](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/who-we-work-with-to-support-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)
    * [Annual health checks](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks)
    * [Ear health and hearing support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-health-and-hearing-support)
    * [Eye health and vision support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)
    * [Chronic disease support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support)
    * [Medicare and medicines](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/medicare-and-medicines)
    * [Evaluations](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/evaluations)
  * [Lifestyle and family health support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support)
  * [Aged care support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/aged-care-support)
  * [Reporting](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)
  * [Research](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/research)
  * [News](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

