Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Health alerts](/health-alerts)
  3. [Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19)
  4. [Coronavirus (COVID-19) advice for the health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)

[For health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-
covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)

# Working arrangements for high-risk settings during COVID-19

Find out what you need to do as a health, aged care or disability services
employer to keep your staff and business safe during COVID-19.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Working arrangements for high-risk settings during COVID-19&url=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/working-arrangements-for-high-risk-settings-during-covid-19)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/working-arrangements-for-high-risk-settings-during-covid-19)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Working arrangements for high-risk settings during COVID-19&body=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/working-arrangements-for-high-risk-settings-during-covid-19)

Loading...

On this page

High risk settings include:

  * Residential aged and disability care facilities
  * Home aged care and disability care
  * Hospitals and other health care settings

## When can staff come to work?

Health, aged care and disability services workforce deliver critical services
to make sure that Australians receive the health care they need to stay well
and maximise quality of life. This includes those who provide direct care and
those who provide essential support services such as cleaning, food
preparation or administration.

Workers can still go to work if they have directly cared for a confirmed case
as long as they are using appropriate [personal protective equipment
(PPE)](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-
disability-sector/personal-protective-equipment-ppe-for-the-health-workforce-
during-covid-19 "Personal protective equipment \(PPE\) for the health
workforce during COVID-19"). There is no longer any requirement to isolate
following exposure to a confirmed COVID-19 case.

Where [vulnerable workers](/news/australian-health-protection-principal-
committee-ahppc-advice-to-national-cabinet-on-30-march-2020 "Australian Health
Protection Principal Committee \(AHPPC\) Advice to National Cabinet on 30
March 2020") undertake essential work a risk assessment must be undertaken.
Risk needs to be assessed and mitigated, taking into account the worker, the
workplace and the work they are doing. This should be conducted with your
local Public Health Unit.

Where possible, vulnerable workers should be redeployed to non-care based
roles. Where risk cannot be appropriately mitigated, employers and workers
should consider alternate arrangements to accommodate a workplace absence.

## When should staff not come to work?

All workers, should not attend work if they:

  * have a fever
  * have symptoms, even minor symptoms, of respiratory illness, such as a cough, shortness of breath, sore throat, runny nose or nasal congestion.

Workers should stay home:

  * while waiting for the result of a COVID-19 test
  * after testing positive for COVID-19.

If you feel unwell with [COVID-19 symptoms](/node/10361#symptoms), even mild
ones, stay home and [get tested](/node/10361#testing) for COVID-19.

## When should staff be tested for COVID-19?

Health care, aged and disability care workers are at greater risk of exposure
to confirmed or suspected cases of COVID-19. It’s important to detect COVID-19
early to protect both workers and those they are caring for.

Workers should be tested for COVID-19 if they develop fever or respiratory
symptoms. Testing is now available through consultation with a doctor.

Their doctor will confirm if they need to be tested and will arrange for the
test.

Workers should stay at home, until they receive their results.

For aged care settings, workers and visitors, should be screened for COVID-19
at least 2 times per week and not more than 72 hours apart. This should
increase to daily testing of workers, visitors and residents during an
outbreak to help minimise the spread of infections.

### COVID-19 test results

If the result is **negative** , the worker should remain at home until they
are no longer displaying respiratory symptoms to reduce the risk of infecting
others.

If the result is **positive** , workers who provide close personal care should
not attend the workplace for 7 days and return when they are no longer showing
respiratory symptoms.

Read more [information on
testing](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/coronavirus-covid-19-seeing-a-doctor-
getting-tested-faqs).

## Flu vaccination

The annual influenza (flu) vaccine is available.

We strongly encourage health, aged care and disability workers to get the flu
vaccine every year. The flu vaccine does not protect against COVID-19, but if
anyone becomes ill with both influenza and COVID-19 this can be very serious.

Workers may experience fever as a [side effect](/node/1691#what-are-the-
possible-side-effects-of-influenza-immunisation) of the flu vaccination. As
fever is also a symptom of COVID-19, we recommend that staff with fever be
tested as a precaution.

## Accessing payments when staff cannot go to work

Workers who are eligible for personal (‘sick’) leave can claim this if they
are unwell, or need to isolate.

If workers are unable to work, financial support may be available for workers
in hight-risk settings. Find out who may be [eligible and how they can
apply](https://treasury.gov.au/coronavirus/households).

## Accessing more staff when you need them

The Australian Government and states and territories have built the capacity
of Australia’s health work force. This may help you if you need to access more
workers quickly.

The surge workforce will operate on a ‘standby’ basis. It will only be used if
current health workforce levels need to be supplemented quickly.

### Health practitioners ****

The Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (Ahpra) has established
the pandemic response sub-register. The sub-register is a list of retired or
non-practising qualified health care practitioners.

The sub-register covers:

  * doctors
  * nurses
  * midwives
  * pharmacists
  * diagnostic radiographers
  * physiotherapists
  * psychologists.

Learn more about eligibility, registration and professional indemnity
arrangements on [Ahpra’s sub-register information
page](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/News/COVID-19/Pandemic-response-sub-
register.aspx).

If practitioners need to access Medicare rebates, visit the Services Australia
website to learn more about:

  * [Medicare provider numbers for returning practitioners](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/subjects/coronavirus-information-health-professionals)
  * how to [register for or change Medicare details](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/medicare-benefits-health-professionals/apply-medicare-provider-number/applying-medicare-provider-number#applyingforadditionalprovidernumbers).

### Workers for aged care services

Aged care services affected by COVID-19 can find temporary workers through
[aged care workforce measures](/resources/publications/covid-19-aged-care-
workforce-measures-frequently-asked-questions "COVID-19 aged care workforce
measures frequently asked questions").

### Other measures

The government has temporarily relaxed working hours limits for student visa
holders working in aged or disability care. Student visa holders enrolled in
nursing or health courses can work to support the health effort against
COVID-19.

For more information go to the [Department of Home
Affairs](https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-
listing/student-500/temporary-relaxation-of-working-hours-for-student-visa-
holders) website.

Workers from other sectors can retrain for health and care sector roles. For
more information go to the government’s [Jobs
Hub](https://www.dese.gov.au/covid-19/jobs-hub).

Learn more about states and territories workforce measures on the Aphra
[COVID-19 Health Workforce](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/News/COVID-19/Workforce-
resources/COVID-19-health-workforce.aspx) page.

## Employer responsibilities

As an employer, you should brief all workers on how to [prevent the spread of
COVID-19](/health-alerts/covid-19/protect-yourself-and-others "Protect
yourself and others from COVID-19"). This includes your contract workers and
domestic and cleaning workers.

If one of your workers has tested positive for COVID-19, you need to follow
the health advice from the [National Coronavirus Helpline](/contacts/national-
coronavirus-helpline "National Coronavirus Helpline") on [1800 020
080](tel:1800020080) or state or territory helpline.

You also need to:

  * support employees to maintain simple steps to reduce spread of infection such as hand [hygiene](/node/11436#personal-hygiene)
  * make sure the [workplace is thoroughly cleaned](/node/11436#cleaning-in-the-workplace)
  * promote [physical distancing](/physical-distancing-for-coronavirus-covid-19 "Physical distancing for coronavirus \(COVID-19\)"), where this does not prevent care
  * adhere to the [limits on public gatherings](/limits-on-public-gatherings-for-coronavirus-covid-19 "Limits on public gatherings for coronavirus \(COVID-19\)"), noting that this does not apply to workers meetings
  * support your [employees’ mental health](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/mental-health-for-the-health-workforce-during-covid-19 "Mental health for the health workforce during COVID-19")
  * provide information to [workers in high-risk settings](/resources/publications/coronavirus-covid-19-information-for-workers-in-residential-aged-care-facilities "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) information for workers in residential aged care facilities").

## When other responsibilities may apply

Additional responsibilities may apply when your organisation:

  * [supports patients face to face](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-health-care-face-to-face-during-covid-19 "Providing health care face to face during COVID-19")
  * [supports patients remotely](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-health-care-remotely-during-the-covid-19-pandemic "Providing health care remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic")
  * [provides aged care](/topics/aged-care/advice-on-aged-care-during-covid-19/aged-care-sector-advice "Advice for the aged care sector on COVID-19")
  * [provides disability services](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-disability-support-services-during-covid-19 "Providing disability support services during COVID-19").

## Support

There are a range of Australian Government and State and Territory initiatives
available to support employers managing a health workforce.

  * [Aged Care Workforce Retention Bonus Grant](/our-work/aged-care-workforce-retention-bonus-payment-for-residential-and-home-care-workers "Aged Care Workforce Retention Bonus Payment for residential and home care workers ")
  * [COVID-19 Aged Care Support Program Extension Grant (GO4863)](/news/announcements/extension-of-the-covid-19-aged-care-support-program-extension-grant-go4863 "Extension of the COVID-19 Aged Care Support Program Extension Grant \(GO4863\)")
  * [Safe Work Australia — information for workplaces](https://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/covid-19-information-workplaces)
  * [Beyond Blue](https://coronavirus.beyondblue.org.au/)
  * [Head to Health COVID-19 Support](https://headtohealth.gov.au/covid-19-support/covid-19)
  * [Mental health and COVID-19 Information for Workplaces ](https://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/safety-topic/managing-health-and-safety/mental-health)
  * [Australian Government support for businesses](https://treasury.gov.au/coronavirus/businesses)
  * [JobKeeper Payment Advice](https://treasury.gov.au/coronavirus/jobkeeper) for employers
  * [State and territory health departments](/about-us/contact-us/local-state-and-territory-health-departments "Local state and territory health departments").

## Staying informed

To stay up to date on COVID-19:

  * monitor the [COVID-19 current situation and case numbers](/health-alerts/covid-19/case-numbers-and-statistics "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) case numbers and statistics")
  * browse our [news and media](/coronavirus-covid-19-latest-news "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) latest news")

## Resources

### Publications and fact sheets

See our resources on [working arrangements for health and aged care workers
during COVID-19](/node/9996#working-arrangements).

[Coronavirus (COVID-19) resources for health professionals, including aged
care providers, pathology providers and health care
managers](/resources/collections/coronavirus-covid-19-resources-for-health-
professionals-including-aged-care-providers-pathology-providers-and-health-
care-managers "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) resources for health professionals,
including aged care providers, pathology providers and health care managers")

A collection of resources for health professionals, including aged care
providers, pathology providers and health care managers, about coronavirus
(COVID-19).

#### National COVID-19 Community Protection Framework for a COVIDSafe
Australia

The [National COVID-19 Community Protection
Framework](/resources/publications/national-covid-19-community-protection-
framework "National COVID-19 Community Protection Framework") outlines public
health measures to manage COVID-19.

### Webinars

View our [webinars on the COVID-19 response for the health and aged care
sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-
and-disability-sector/webinars-on-the-coronavirus-covid-19-response-for-the-
health-aged-care-and-disability-sectors "Webinars on the coronavirus
\(COVID-19\) response for the health, aged care and disability sectors").

![Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) resources for health professionals, including aged
care providers, pathology providers and health care
managers](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2020/06/covid-19-resources-
for-health-professionals-including-aged-care-providers-pathology-providers-
and-health-care-managers.png?itok=BVbzkn2n)

###  [COVID-19 resources for health professionals, including aged care
providers, pathology providers and health care managers
](/resources/collections/coronavirus-covid-19-resources-for-health-
professionals-including-aged-care-providers-pathology-providers-and-health-
care-managers?language=en)

A collection of resources for health professionals, including aged care
providers, pathology providers and health care managers, about coronavirus
(COVID-19).

Last updated:

2 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Coronavirus (COVID-19)](/health-alerts/covid-19)

  * [About the pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19/about)
  * [Case numbers](/health-alerts/covid-19/case-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Symptoms](/health-alerts/covid-19/symptoms)
  * [Protect yourself and others](/health-alerts/covid-19/protect-yourself-and-others)
  * [COVID-19 treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/about)
  * [Testing](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing)
  * [Testing positive, and close contacts](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing-positive)
  * [Domestic travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/domestic-travel)
  * [International travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/international-travel)
  * [Physical, mental and financial support](/health-alerts/covid-19/support)
  * [Advice for groups at greater risk](/health-alerts/covid-19/advice-for-groups-at-risk)
  * [For aged care sector](/topics/aged-care/advice-on-aged-care-during-covid-19)
  * [For health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)
    * [Working arrangements](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/working-arrangements-for-high-risk-settings-during-covid-19)
    * [Hygiene and cleaning](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/hygiene-and-cleaning-for-the-health-workforce-during-covid-19)
    * [Personal protective equipment (PPE)](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/personal-protective-equipment-ppe-for-the-health-workforce-during-covid-19)
    * [Mental health](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/mental-health-for-the-health-workforce-during-covid-19)
    * [Providing health care face to face](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-health-care-face-to-face-during-covid-19)
    * [Providing health care remotely](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-health-care-remotely-during-the-covid-19-pandemic)
    * [Providing disability support services](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-disability-support-services-during-covid-19)
    * [Webinars](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/webinars-on-the-coronavirus-covid-19-response-for-the-health-aged-care-and-disability-sectors)
  * [Government response](/health-alerts/covid-19/government-response)
  * [Translated information](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

