Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)
  3. [Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

[Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

# A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan – March
2023

A newsletter from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan with
updates from the nursing and midwifery sector, some personal priorities and
highlights, and an insight on what's happening across the Department of Health
and Aged Care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan – March 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan – March 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023)

Loading...

Date published:

4 April 2023

Audience:

Health sector

On this page

Hello and welcome back to my first newsletter for 2023. This year I will
continue to share updates and milestones across the nursing and midwifery
professions. It’s no secret they are facing complex challenges, and this year
the Australian Government will continue to work on growing and supporting the
health workforce so that we can deliver even better health care to all
Australians. There is much work to be done, and I look forward to connecting
with you on this topic in future editions of my newsletter.

For more updates from the Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer, follow Alison
on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/professor-alison-mcmillan-
psm-201a4a50/)

![Endometriosis Awareness
Month](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-04/endometriosis_awareness_month.png?itok=Plg-
FbU3)

## Endometriosis Awareness Month

March is Endometriosis Awareness Month, it’s a chronic condition that impacts
at least one in 9 Australian women and girls and those assigned female at
birth.

Endometriosis is a highly individualised disease, with its symptoms and impact
ranging significantly from person to person.

The Australian Government is focused on improving endometriosis and pelvic
pain diagnosis and primary care support, helping more women to find
appropriate care and better manage the impact of endometriosis and pelvic
pain.

Hear about the impact of endometriosis by watching my video: [Endometriosis
Awareness Month](https://youtu.be/_OSbl9BPjZ0) or visit our
[website](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-
about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-endometriosis).

## Nurses and midwives honoured with Australia Day Awards:

Registered nurses and midwives provide excellence in clinical leadership
across health and aged care and have a critical role in delivering safe and
high-quality care to all Australian communities. The list of nurses and
midwives who received an award can be found from the ANMJ
[website](https://anmj.org.au/midwifery-trailblazer-recognised-in-australia-
day-2023-honours-
list/#:~:text=University%20of%20Newcastle%20Professor%20Maralyn,2023%20Australia%20Day%20Honours%20List.).

## **Increasing access to health and aged care** **–** **a strategic plan for
the nurse practitioner workforce**

Consultation closed on 10 February for feedback on the consultation draft of
the Nurse Practitioner Strategic Plan. Engagement levels were positive, with
the Department of Health and Aged Care receiving 172 survey submissions and 25
written submissions.

We also held yarning circles, consumer focus groups and stakeholder meetings.
Thank you to all those who have contributed throughout the process. We are now
considering the detailed feedback we received to further refine the plan.

## **Support for nurses in mental health**

Mental Health nurses are now eligible to apply for the ANZAED Eating Disorder
Credential. The Credential aims to help people experiencing eating disorders
to locate the appropriate treatment services at the right time. It formally
recognises mental health professionals and dietitians who possess the
qualifications, knowledge, training, and professional development profile to
meet minimum standards for delivery of safe and effective eating disorder
treatment. For more information visit ANZAED's
[website](https://connected.anzaed.org.au/).

## Cervical screening - the word's out about self-collection

During February, March and April 2023, the National Cervical Screening Program
is partnering with Mamamia and The Daily Aus to promote a new option to
collect your own Cervical Screening Test sample.

Self-collection is just as safe and effective at detecting HPV as in clinic,
and has the potential to reach never or under-screened participants by
providing an easier, less invasive option.

A pilot showed that 86% of never-screened or under-screened women and people
with a cervix who declined a speculum examination agreed to self-collection
when the option was offered. For more information visit our
[website](https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-
toolkit/cervical-screening-options/self-collection-for-cervical-screening).

## Rare disease projects

The Rare Disease Awareness, Education, Support and Training (RArEST) Project,
funded by the Department of Health and Aged Care, aims to improve outcomes for
the one in 12 Australians living with a rare disease. Under this project, a
range of rare disease resources, education, and training is being developed,
including the following Rare Disease Project ECHO: <https://learn.m4rd.org/>  
  
To subscribe to the courses for free and to access the lessons as they become
available visit the [registration
page](https://airtable.com/shrxKxtkOMZKjLGcY).

## Infection control units HLTINF006 & HLTINF007 ******–**  
1 March 2023

There have been recent changes made to Infection Prevention and Control units
of competency in VET courses. New units have been published, either as part of
a major change process - or as a minor change with the new unit being added to
the elective bank.

To ensure all current qualifications that include the superseded units could
be updated without delay, the Australian Industry and Skills Committee agreed
that the new units should replace the superseded units in the remaining **CHC
and HLT** qualifications through a **‘minor change’** process. More
information on the units is available
[online](https://training.gov.au/Home/NewsItem/78c32324-ea5d-4505-a93b-89a49b4e2b41).

## **Free Equip Aged Care Learning packages**

An additional 3 modules are now available as part of the free learning offered
through the University of Tasmania's Wicking Dementia Research and Education
Centre.

The modules are designed for direct care workers (including nurses),
volunteers, caregivers and anyone with an interest in improving care for older
people:

  * Promoting Mental Health and Wellbeing
  * Prevention of Falls
  * Wound Management and Pressure Injury

Register and enrol for these modules at [Equip Aged Care Learning
(utas.edu.au)](https://equiplearning.mooc.utas.edu.au/).

For further enquiries, email
[equip.learning@utas.edu.au](mailto:equip.learning@utas.edu.au)

## **Family and domestic violence training opportunity**

The Safer Families Consortium has developed _The Readiness Program._ The suite
of training resources supports primary health care workers to better recognise
and respond to people experiencing family and domestic violence.

The flexible training delivery includes online workshops, virtual practice-
centred learning, e-learning modules and webinars. The training is trauma- and
violence-informed and is fully funded to anyone working in a primary care
setting, including nursing and clinical and non-clinical staff within general
practice, community health and Aboriginal Medical Services. Some midwives have
also completed the training. This is an approved CPD activity under the RACGP
CPD Program.

To register or find out more visit the Safer Families
[website](https://www.saferfamilies.org.au/readiness-program).

## **Do you know someone interested in studying to be an Enrolled Nurse?**

Become an enrolled nurse with a range of Fee-Free TAFE and vocational training
places available in most states and territories. By completing a Diploma of
Nursing you can work in a variety of health care areas, including hospitals,
aged care, primary health or mental health. The health sector is growing in
Australia and there are many employment opportunities for enrolled nurses. It
is also a skill that is transferable with employment widely available in many
locations.

For more information visit the your career
[website](https://www.yourcareer.gov.au/fee-free-tafe).

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

