Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

[COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

# COVID-19 vaccines translated information

Vaccines protect us from the virus that causes COVID-19. Everyone in Australia
aged 5 years and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=COVID-19 vaccines translated information&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=COVID-19 vaccines translated information&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)

Loading...

Information in your language  Albanian - ShqipAmharic - አማርኛArabic -
العربيةArmenian - ՀայերենAssyrian - ܐܵܬܘܿܪܵܝܵܐBengali - বাংলাBosnian -
BosanskiBulgarian - БългарскиBurmese - မြန်မာChin Hakha - Laiholh
(Hakha)Chinese, Simplified - 简体中文Chinese, Traditional - 繁體中文Croatian -
HrvatskiDari - دریDinka - ThuɔŋjäŋDutch - NederlandsEnglishFinnish -
SuomiFrench - FrançaisGerman - DeutschGreek - ΕλληνικάGujarati -
ગુજરાતીHazaragi - هزاره گیHebrew - עבריתHindi - हिन्दीHmongIndonesian - Bahasa
IndonesiaItalian - ItalianoJapanese - 日本語Karen - ကညီကျိၥ်KhmerKirundi -
RundiKorean - 한국어Kurdish - KurdîLaotian - LaoMacedonian - МакедонскиMalayalam
- മലയാളംMaltese - MaltiNepali - नेपालीPashto - پښتوPersian, Farsi -
فارسیPolish - PolskiPortuguese - PortuguêsPunjabi - ਪੰਜਾਬੀRohingya -
RuáingaRomanian - RomânăRussian - РусскийSamoan - SamoaSerbian - СрпскиSinhala
- සිංහලSlovak - SlovenčinaSlovenian - SlovenščinaSomaliSpanish -
EspañolSwahili - KiswahiliTagalogTamil - தமிழ்Thai - ภาษาไทยTibetan -
བོད་སྐད།Tigrinya - ትግርኛTurkish - TürkçeUkrainian - УкраїнськаUrdu -
اردوVietnamese - Tiếng Việt

On this page

## About COVID-19 vaccines

Everyone in Australia aged 5 years and older, and some children aged 6 months
to 4 years, are eligible for the COVID-19 vaccine.

[Find a clinic and book](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-
services)

COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone in Australia. This includes people
without a Medicare card, overseas visitors, international students, migrant
workers and asylum seekers.

Getting vaccinated will help protect you, your family and your community from
COVID-19.

The Australian Government has not made vaccination mandatory and you can
choose not to get vaccinated against COVID-19

Some state and territory public health orders can mandate vaccination in
certain circumstances. For example, for some types of employment and for some
community activities.

## Vaccines are safe

COVID-19 vaccinations are safe and save lives. In Australia, the [Therapeutic
Goods Administration](https://www.tga.gov.au/) (TGA) continues to closely
monitor COVID-19 vaccine safety and side effects.

Learn more about each vaccine available in Australia:

  * [Comirnaty (Pfizer)](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines/pfizer "Comirnaty \(Pfizer\)")
  * [Nuvaxovid (Novavax)](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines/novavax "Nuvaxovid \(Novavax\)")
  * [Spikevax (Moderna)](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines/moderna "Spikevax \(Moderna\)")

If you have any questions or worries after your vaccination, contact your
vaccination clinic or doctor.

## Who should get vaccinated

Everyone 5 years and older should get vaccinated against COVID-19.

To get the best protection from getting very sick or dying from COVID-19, you
should have all the doses recommended for your age and health needs.

Some children aged **6 months to 4 years** are eligible for the COVID-19
vaccine if they:

  * are severely immunocompromised
  * have disability
  * have complex and/or multiple health conditions that increase their risk of severe COVID-19.

Children aged **6 months to 4 years** should get:

  * two primary doses of the COVID-19 vaccine
  * a third primary dose if they are severely immunocompromised.

Children aged **5 to 17 years** should get:

  * two primary doses of the COVID-19 vaccine
  * a third primary dose if they are severely immunocompromised.
  * a booster dose if: 
    * they are severely immunocompromised
    * they have a disability
    * they have complex and/or multiple health conditions that increase their risk of severe COVID-19
    * it's been 6 months since their last dose or confirmed COVID-19 infection.

Your doctor can help you decide if your child should receive a booster.

Everyone aged **18 years or older** should get:

  * two primary doses of the COVID-19 vaccine
  * a third primary dose if they are severely immunocompromised

Everyone aged 18 years or older can consider a booster dose if it’s been 6
months since their last dose or confirmed COVID-19 infection.

Learn more about [COVID-19 booster vaccine advice](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses "COVID-19
booster vaccine advice").

### Children

COVID-19 vaccine safety data from AusVaxSafety shows that children aged 5 to
15 years reported fewer side effects in the days following their COVID-19
vaccination than in clinical trials.

There is no evidence that COVID-19 vaccines cause future infertility in
children.

Learn more about [COVID-19 vaccines for children and
teenagers](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-covid-19-vaccines-for-
children-and-teenagers-information-for-parents-and-guardians "COVID-19
vaccination – COVID-19 vaccines for children and teenagers: information for
parents and guardians").

### Pregnant or breastfeeding women

COVID-19 vaccines are safe if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, or planning
pregnancy. You can receive the vaccine at any stage of pregnancy.

Learn more about [pregnancy, breastfeeding, and COVID-19
vaccines](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-pregnancy-
breastfeeding-and-covid-19-vaccines "COVID-19 vaccination – Pregnancy,
breastfeeding, and COVID-19 vaccines").

### People with disability

People with disability face a greater risk of serious illness from COVID-19
and should get vaccinated.

If you want more help or support, you can call the Disability Gateway Helpline
on [1800 643 787](tel:1800%20643%20787). They can make a booking for you.

If you need an interpreter, call the Translating and Interpreting Service
[**131 450**](tel:%20131450) and ask them to telephone the Disability Gateway.

### People with existing health issues

People with existing health issues are at greater risk of serious illness from
COVID-19 and should get vaccinated.

Talk to your regular health care provider about the best vaccine for your
situation.

## Where to get vaccinated

You can get a COVID-19 vaccine at:

  * Commonwealth vaccination clinics
  * participating general practices
  * Aboriginal Controlled Community Health Services
  * state and territory vaccination clinics, and
  * participating pharmacies.

General practitioners cannot charge you for the vaccine.

To find your nearest vaccination clinic and book your vaccination, use health
[Service Finder](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services) .

If you need phone or on-site interpreting at your vaccine appointment, call
the Translating and Interpreting Service on [131 450.](tel: 131450)

EVA, also known as Easy Vaccine Access, is a service to help you make a
COVID-19 vaccination booking over the phone in your language. EVA operates
from 7am to 10pm (AEST), 7 days a week. Learn more about
[EVA](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-easy-vaccine-access-call-
back-service-brochure "COVID-19 vaccination - Easy Vaccine Access call back
service brochure").

### If you don’t have a Medicare card

If you don’t have a Medicare card, you can get your free vaccination from
community pharmacies and state or territory vaccination clinics (where they
are still operational

## Before your COVID-19 vaccine

If you haven't already done so, book an appointment.

[Find a clinic and book](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-
services)

If you have a Medicare card, check your details are up to date:

  * through your [Medicare online account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-online-accounts) via [myGov](https://my.gov.au/LoginServices/main/login?execution=e2s1)
  * in the [Express Plus Medicare app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-plus-medicare-mobile-app)
  * by calling [Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us/phone-us#medicaregeneral).

You may be asked to fill out a consent form before your appointment, or if you
are making a vaccination decision for someone else.

Read the [consent
form](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/translated/covid-19-vaccination-
consent-form-for-covid-19-vaccination-other-languages).

Read the [information and consent form for children aged 5 to 11
years](/node/32887).

## After your COVID-19 vaccine

You will be monitored for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination in case
of a rare allergic reaction. The person who gives you the vaccine has been
trained to respond to immediate reactions.

Usually side effects from COVID-19 vaccines are mild and go away within 1 to 2
days. Common side effects include:

  * a sore arm where the needle went in
  * tiredness
  * headache
  * muscle pain
  * fever and chills.

As with any medicine or vaccine, there may be rare or unknown side effects. If
you think you are having serious side effects contact your health care
professional, or the National Coronavirus Helpline.

[1800 020 080](tel: 1800020080)

If you need an interpreter, call the National Coronavirus Helpline and choose
**option 8**.

## Proof of vaccination

You can get proof of your COVID-19 vaccination by accessing your Immunisation
History Statement.

You can access your Immunisation History Statement:

  * online, by setting up your own [myGov account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/online-help/create-mygov-account) and then accessing your [Medicare online account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-online-accounts)
  * through the [Express Plus Medicare mobile app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-plus-medicare-mobile-app).

If you do not have a Medicare card, or do not have access to a myGov account,
you can access your Immunisation History Statement by:

  * asking your vaccination provider to print a copy for you
  * calling the Australian Immunisation Register enquiries line on [1800 653 809](tel: 1800653809) (8 am – 5 pm Monday to Friday AEST) and asking them to send your statement to you in the mail. It can take up to 14 days to arrive in the mail.

For more information on how to get proof of your COVID-19 vaccinations, see
the [Services Australia
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof).

## **Where to go for trusted information**

It’s important to stay informed about the COVID-19 and the COVID-19
vaccination program through reliable and official sources.

Answers to common questions on COVID-19 vaccines is available [in 63
languages](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-covid-19-vaccines-
common-questions "COVID-19 vaccination – COVID-19 vaccines: common
questions").

An [information pack](/resources/publications/latest-covid-19-vaccine-
information-for-multicultural-communities "Latest COVID-19 vaccine information
for multicultural communities") containing in-language resources about
COVID-19 vaccines is available.

Read information about [COVID-19 in your language](/health-
alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information "Coronavirus
\(COVID-19\)  translated information").

## Resources

View more translated [COVID-19 vaccine
information](/resources?f%5B0%5D=h_related_conditions_and_diseases%3ACOVID-19).

Last updated:

5 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

