Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Mental health and suicide prevention

Almost half of all Australian adults will face mental ill-health during their
lives. Suicide was the main cause of death for Australians aged 15 to 49 years
in 2019. Find out what we're doing to support people with mental ill-health
and reduce suicide in Australia.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Mental health and suicide prevention&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Mental health and suicide prevention&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)

Loading...

###  [ About mental health ](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-
prevention/about-mental-health)

Find out what we’re doing to support Australians with mental ill-health.

###  [ About suicide prevention ](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-
prevention/about-suicide-prevention)

Read how we're working to prevent suicide and support those affected.

###  [ Better Access initiative ](/our-work/better-access-initiative)

See Medicare rebates that help people access mental health support.

###  [ Get help now ](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-
health-and-suicide-prevention-contacts)

Find a list of contacts for organisations that can give you the help you need.

[View all mental health and suicide prevention information](/topics/mental-
health-and-suicide-prevention/about-mental-health)

![Head to health
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/head_to_health_0.jpg?itok=nESoVeaq)

### Find support

If you are in a crisis, find a list of services that can help you right now,
at Head to Health.

[Crisis support contacts](https://headtohealth.gov.au/crisis-links)

## Mental health support during COVID-19

The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, physical distancing and isolation can
make us feel anxious, stressed and worried. Read about what you can do to
[look after your mental wellbeing](/node/11619) and look out for those around
you as we tackle these challenges together.

## Did you know?

1 in 2

Australian adults will face mental ill-health at some point in their lives

3,000

Australians end their lives each year

Up to $220 billion

is the estimated cost of suicide to our economy

## Latest news

## Latest news

![Strong
Born](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/2023-03/strong-
born.png?itok=UnrFMQYJ)

###  [ Strong Born ](/news/strong-born?language=en)

31 March 2023

![Aboriginal woman with the sun behind her looking caring and reaching out to
another Aboriginal woman who is in despair with clouds and rain on her
head](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/2023-03/how-to-
deal-with-loneliness-and-get-support.jpg?itok=iCRvu1UG)

###  [ How to deal with loneliness and get support  ](/news/how-to-deal-with-
loneliness-and-get-support?language=en)

8 March 2023

###  [ Your Aged Care Update #06, 2023 ](/news/newsletters/your-aged-care-
update-06-2023?language=en)

Your Aged Care Update #06: Residents’ Experience Surveys, register for
webinars and training, and more

23 February 2023

[View more news](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-
and-suicide-prevention-
news?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC)

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![Budget 2023–⁠24: Mental health fact
sheet](/sites/default/files/2023-05/laying-the-groundwork-for-mental-health-
and-suicide-prevention-system-reform-budget-2023-24.jpg)

### [Laying the groundwork for mental health and suicide prevention system
reform – Budget 2023–24 ](/resources/publications/laying-the-groundwork-for-
mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-system-reform-budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

This Budget 2023–24 fact sheet outlines reforms to the mental health and
suicide prevention system. The Australian Government will address workforce
shortages and urgent gaps, and extend critical services. This will lay the
groundwork for future reform.

![Cover page The Way Back Support Services Evaluation – Final
report](/sites/default/files/2023-03/the-way-back-support-services-evaluation-
final-evaluation-report.jpg)

### [The Way Back Support Services Evaluation – Final evaluation report
](/resources/publications/the-way-back-support-services-evaluation-final-
evaluation-report?language=en)

24 March 2023

Report

This report details how well The Way Back Support Service was being delivered,
participant experiences and outcomes, and what contributes to recovery after a
suicide attempt or crisis, for whom and how.

![Cover page The Way Back Support Services Evaluation –
Appendices](/sites/default/files/2023-03/the-way-back-support-services-
evaluation-final-evaluation-report-appendices.jpg)

### [The Way Back Support Services Evaluation – Final evaluation report
appendices ](/resources/publications/the-way-back-support-services-evaluation-
final-evaluation-report-appendices?language=en)

24 March 2023

Report

A sequential list of supplemental information to accompany The Way Back
Support Services Final Evaluation Report.

![Cover image for Better Access – Involving family or carers in my mental
health treatment](/sites/default/files/2023-03/better-access-involving-family-
or-carers-in-my-mental-health-treatment.png)

### [Better Access – Involving family or carers in my mental health treatment
](/resources/publications/better-access-involving-family-or-carers-in-my-
mental-health-treatment?language=en)

3 March 2023

Fact sheet

This fact sheet outlines available Medicare rebates under the MBS initiative
(Better Access).

[View more resources](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-
health-and-suicide-prevention-
resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

