Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Medicare Benefits Schedule continuous review to improve patient care

Medicare items and services will be reviewed by experts on an ongoing basis to
ensure the Medicare Schedule remains contemporary and provides universal
access to the best technologies and services under new arrangements introduced
by the Australian Government.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare Benefits Schedule continuous review to improve patient care&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/medicare-benefits-schedule-continuous-review-to-improve-patient-care)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/medicare-benefits-schedule-continuous-review-to-improve-patient-care)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare Benefits Schedule continuous review to improve patient care&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/medicare-benefits-schedule-continuous-review-to-improve-patient-care)

Loading...

Date published:

13 September 2021

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

Medicare items and services will be reviewed by experts on an ongoing basis to
ensure the Medicare Schedule remains contemporary and provides universal
access to the best technologies and services under new arrangements introduced
by the Australian Government.

The Government has appointed two experts – Conjoint Professor Anne Duggan
(Chair) and Ms Jo Watson (Deputy Chair) – to lead the new Medicare Benefits
Schedule (MBS) Review Advisory Committee (MRAC).

Professor Duggan and Ms Watson have been selected for their extensive
knowledge of the health system, their professional and community standing, and
their understanding of broader structural whole-of-MBS issues. Throughout
their careers, they have both made significant professional contributions to
support important reforms to Australia’s health system. Their appointments
will support ongoing improvements to ensure access to high value and
contemporary health services for all Australians.

Professor Duggan is Chief Medical Officer for the Australian Commission on
Safety and Quality in Health Care, where she provides expert clinical advice
to the Commission in its role to improve safety and quality of health care
nationally. She is a practicing gastroenterologist with a strong background in
providing leadership to clinicians and colleagues to improve patient care and
embed clinical governance frameworks.

Ms Watson is the current Deputy Chair of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory
Committee (PBAC). She also brings her experience as Chair of the Health
Technology Assessment Consumer Consultative Committee and Deputy Chair of the
Consumer Health Forum Board, where she promotes consumer advocacy and
representation within diverse health contexts.

The new MRAC will build upon the work of the MBS Review Taskforce, which from
2015 to 2020 reviewed the more than 5,700 items on the MBS, line-by-line, for
clinical efficacy and relevance. The Taskforce’s recommendations have
delivered significant improvements in patient care.

The MRAC will ensure the MBS continues to support high quality care, and
remains flexible and contemporary. It reinforces the Government’s commitment
to provide Australians with affordable access to universal health care, a key
pillar of the Government’s Long-Term National Health Plan.

Ongoing rigorous and comprehensive review and analysis is essential for a
consistent, clear, and evidence-based MBS that works for patients and health
professionals alike.

The Australian Government is investing $125.7 billion in Medicare over the
next four years, an increase of over $6 billion since last year’s Budget.
Complementing the role of the Medical Services Advisory Committee, the MRAC
will provide advice to Government to ensure that funded services are high
value, contemporary and support good health outcomes.

MRAC membership will include individuals with clinical, consumer, health
economic and research expertise and will adopt a consultative approach with
peak medical groups.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### Departmental media enquiries

Contact for members of the media

[news@health.gov.au](mailto:news@health.gov.au?subject=Media enquiry - News
item ID 3086&body=URL - https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.au%2Fnews%2Fmedicare-
benefits-schedule-continuous-review-to-improve-patient-care)

[02 6289 7400](tel:02 6289 7400)

[View contact](/contacts/departmental-media-enquiries)

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

