Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

[Medicare](/topics/medicare)

# Medicare reforms and reviews

We conduct independent reviews of Medicare, the Medicare Benefits Schedule
(MBS), the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Schedule and specific MBS and
PBS items. This helps ensure our healthcare system stays up to date with the
latest research and practices.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare reforms and reviews&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare reforms and reviews&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)

Loading...

On this page

## **What reforms and reviews are**

Reviews help us find ways to improve our processes to make them more efficient
and effective.

Reviews might look at things like:

  * current processes and practices
  * the latest relevant research
  * emerging treatments and technologies
  * international best practice.

They can help determine whether we need to reform the way we do things to
improve outcomes.

We regularly review:

  * the [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) (MBS) or [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/browse/reviews) (PBS)
  * specific MBS or PBS Schedule items.

We also conduct [post-market reviews of PBS
medicines](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/reviews/subsidised-medicines-reviews)
to ensure they continue to do what they claim and remain as safe as possible
for Australians.

## **Why they are important**

Medicines, treatments, health technologies and healthcare practices evolve all
the time. Regular reviews and reforms help to keep our healthcare system up to
date with new developments and practices and safer for all Australians.

## **Timing of reforms and reviews**

We start most review processes based on need.

Some of our reviews are ongoing, including:

  * [post-market reviews of PBS medicines](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/reviews/subsidised-medicines-reviews)
  * the [MBS Continuous Review](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review).

## **Who is involved in reforms and reviews**

We use committees and groups to work on specific topics or issues. We often
engage the specialist expertise of our stakeholders to help us.

We [consult with stakeholders](https://consultations.health.gov.au/) to help
us understand the issues and the needs of the community.

## **What we do with the results**

At the end of the review process, the Australian Government considers any
recommendations, and where appropriate [publishes its
response](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/mbs-review-
government-responses).

Some changes can take place without additional cost. For more significant
changes that need extra funding, the Australian Government might allocate
funding in the Budget process to implement them over time.

## **Current and previous Medicare reforms and reviews**

Between 2015 and 2020, the [MBS Review](/our-work/mbs-review "Medicare
Benefits Schedule \(MBS\) Review ") considered how MBS items could be better
aligned with current clinical evidence and practice. The Australian Government
has been progressively considering and implementing the recommendations.

The [MBS Continuous Review](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review) builds on the work
of the MBS Review. It involves the ongoing review of Medicare items and
services by experts to ensure the MBS:

  * continues to support high-quality care
  * remains flexible and current. 

Last updated:

20 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

