Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)
  3. [Website privacy policy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

[Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

# Collection notice for the Clinician Vaccine Integrated Platform (CVIP)

Find out how we manage patient personal information and information we collect
from healthcare providers through the CVIP for the purposes of uploading to
the Australian Immunisation Register (the Register) and to allow government
health agencies to monitor the progress of vaccinations.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Collection notice for the Clinician Vaccine Integrated Platform \(CVIP\)&url=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/collection-notice-for-the-clinician-vaccine-integrated-platform-cvip)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/collection-notice-for-the-clinician-vaccine-integrated-platform-cvip)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Collection notice for the Clinician Vaccine Integrated Platform \(CVIP\)&body=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/collection-notice-for-the-clinician-vaccine-integrated-platform-cvip)

Loading...

On this page

We are retiring the Commonwealth Booking Platform (CBP) and the Clinician
Vaccination Integrated Platform (CVIP).

All vaccine providers currently using the CBP will need to transition to an
alternative booking process or commercially available booking platform by
mid-2022.

All vaccine providers currently using the CVIP will need to transition to a
commercially available, AIR compliant, vaccination reporting software by
mid-2022.

If you require further information regarding the CBP or CVIP please email
[CV19.Products@Health.gov.au](mailto:CV19.Products@Health.gov.au)

## When this privacy notice applies

This privacy notice explains how we (the Australian Government Department of
Health and Aged Care) manage your personal information, consistent with our
obligations under the [Privacy Act
1988](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2004A03712) (the Privacy Act),
when uploading your healthcare provider and patient personal information
through the [CVIP](/resources/apps-and-tools/clinician-vaccine-integrated-
platform-cvip " Clinician Vaccine Integrated Platform \(CVIP\)") for purposes
of uploading to the Register.

## **What is the CVIP?**

CVIP is a tool we have developed to help your healthcare provider meet their
mandatory reporting obligations under the [Australian Immunisation Register
Act 2015](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2015A00138) (the Register
Act) and to collect critical information (including personal and sensitive
information, such as, the main reason you were assessed as eligible for a
COVID-19 vaccine) to support government health agencies in implementing
vaccination programs. CVIP temporarily stores your information. Your
information is deleted from CVIP after your vaccination record has been
uploaded to the Register and/or transferred to your vaccine provider, usually
within 24 hours.

When you give us your personal information it is used for the following
purposes:

  * to verify your identity for reporting to the Register;
  * to report your vaccination to the Register;
  * to allow a healthcare provider treating you to view your Register record including immunisation history;
  * to allow vaccine provider’s clinics to produce a list of vaccinations provided through the clinic; and
  * to allow Commonwealth and State or Territory government health agencies to monitor the progress of vaccinations.

If you are a vaccine provider, your personal information is also used to
create your CVIP account. This is stored in CVIP as part of your user
registration.

## **What is the Register?**

The Register is a whole of life, national immunisation register which records
vaccines given to all people in Australia. The Register includes vaccines
given under the National Immunisation Program, through school-based programs,
and privately, such as for seasonal influenza or travel. The Register may also
include details of vaccines administered outside of Australia.

The Register came into existence in 2016 when the Australian Childhood
Immunisation Register was expanded to become the Register. The Australian
Childhood Immunisation Register began in 1996.

## Patient information

### Information we collect

When you receive a vaccine, your vaccine provider or someone on their behalf
in their clinic, may enter your information, including personal information
into the CVIP. Some of this information is uploaded to the Register.

For COVID-19 and influenza vaccinations, your vaccine provider will be
required by law to report the information to the Register.

The personal information that may be put into the Register includes your name,
date of birth, contact details, gender, and Indigenous status, as well as your
Medicare number (if any) and healthcare identifier (if any). We may also
collect information about previous immunisations administered to you that are
recorded in the Register. Other information will also be included in the
Register, such as details of the vaccination, and information about the
vaccine provider who administered the vaccine.

Information collected by your vaccine provider will only be put into the
Register where it is authorised or required by the Register Act. If no
matching record is located in the Register, a new record will be created in
the Register.

### Information we collect to support vaccination programs

In addition to information collected for the Register, we may also collect
other information about you in CVIP. This information may be sensitive
information, such as the main reason you were assessed as being eligible to
receive a COVID-19 vaccine in the relevant phase of the COVID-19 vaccine
rollout. We collect it to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout, this includes
monitoring and clinical administration of vaccinations.

If you or your legal guardian provide consent to your vaccine provider, they
will also enter into CVIP the main reason you were assessed as being eligible
to receive a vaccine. If you do not provide your consent, we will not collect
this information, but you will still be able to receive your vaccination (and
your vaccination details will still be reported to the Register).

Where your vaccine provider uses the [Commonwealth-procured Booking
Platform](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-
consumers-using-the-commonwealth-procured-booking-platform-for-
covid-19-vaccinations "Privacy notice for consumers using the Commonwealth-
procured Booking Platform for COVID 19 vaccinations") (Booking Platform), your
personal information and booking details may be shared from the Booking
Platform to your vaccine provider’s CVIP account on the day of your booking so
that you do not have to provide it twice.

### Why we collect this information

We collect this information so that your vaccine provider can upload
information about your vaccination into the Register.

We also collect sensitive information (including the main reason you are
eligible for a vaccine if you provide your consent) from you so that reports
can be provided to us (the Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care) or to government health agencies in your State or Territory. These
reports are important tools to support government health agencies in
monitoring their implementation and the progress of the COVID-19 vaccine
rollout, such as how many eligible people in a front-line health role have
been vaccinated.

### Who can record, use and disclose your personal information through CVIP?

The Register Act and the Privacy Act govern when your personal information can
be used and disclosed.

We disclose your personal information to Services Australia to facilitate the
verification of your identity, and the upload of your vaccination information
to the Register. This may include the details of your Medicare Card Number.

Your vaccine provider can access and upload your personal information through
CVIP on to the Register for a purpose permitted by the Register Act. Vaccine
providers registered to use CVIP must comply with relevant laws and not
publish, distribute, email, transmit or disseminate patient data. This
includes the use of any automated scripting tools or software to gain access
to consumer data on the CVIP app.

For information on how you can access and correct your personal information in
the Register, please see the [Register privacy policy](/using-our-
websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-
immunisation-register "Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register
").

In addition, your personal information, including the main reason you are
eligible for a vaccine (if you have provided your consent), will be included
in reports to us or the government health agencies in your State or Territory
to support managing and monitoring the implementation of the COVID-19 vaccine
rollout. State or Territory health agencies may also use your information with
their other clinical datasets for this purpose, in line with the relevant
State or Territory privacy legislation or policies and the Register Act.

The Australian Digital Health Agency (ADHA) has been authorised by us, in
accordance with the Register Act, to assist with this process if necessary.

Information in the Register is only accessed and transmitted through secure
channels.

For details of when information in the Register can be used and disclosed
please see the [Register privacy policy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-
policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-immunisation-register "Privacy Policy
for the Australian Immunisation Register ").

## **Provider information**

### Information we collect

We will collect your Provider Digital Access (PRODA) login details and the
associated personal information to provision you access to the CVIP as a
vaccine provider.

### Why we collect your personal information

When you give us your personal information, including the personal information
you have stored against your PRODA registration, it is used to:

  * verify your identity
  * register you as a user in CVIP
  * link you to the clinic at which you work.

We preload clinics into CVIP, so you can select which one you are working at
the time you are giving vaccinations. Please note that you will use your PRODA
login details to access CVIP.

When you give us your personal information, we will:

  * store it as long as you have a CVIP account
  * delete it when you delete your CVIP account, in accordance with the relevant legislation.

### Who can use and disclose your personal information through CVIP?

We may use and disclose your information collected through CVIP. The ADHA is
authorised by us to use your information. State and Territory health agencies
may also use and disclose your information. The Register Act and the Privacy
Act govern when your personal and sensitive information can be used and
disclosed.

For details of when vaccine provider information in the Register can be used
and disclosed please see the [Register privacy policy](/using-our-
websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-
immunisation-register "Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register
").

## **How information is stored in CVIP**

The protection of your personal and sensitive information and your vaccine
provider’s personal information is something we take very seriously, and we
are committed to keeping it secure. We take significant precautions to protect
personal information from misuse and loss, and from unauthorised access,
modification or disclosure.

We store personal information provided for CVIP on SalesForce. SalesForce is a
cloud-based storage solution that we have contracted with to support the
functioning of CVIP. CVIP will upload your vaccination details through an
automated process.

## **Accuracy of information**

Although we make every reasonable effort to maintain current and accurate
information, you should be aware that there is still the possibility of
inadvertent errors and technical inaccuracies.

If a patient makes a booking using the Booking Platform and the personal
information provided in the booking is incorrect or outdated, the vaccine
provider will be able to update it in CVIP to ensure it matches information in
the Register. For information on how you can correct your personal information
in the Register, please see the [Register privacy policy](/using-our-
websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-
immunisation-register "Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register
").

We do not warrant that the App is error or virus-free.

## **Concerns and complaints**

Our [privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy policy")
explains how you can make a complaint if you think we have breached:

  * the Australian Privacy Principles
  * the Australian Government Agencies Privacy Code

The [privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy policy")
also explains how we will manage your complaint.

## **More on privacy**

We have taken steps to ensure that the implementation of the [COVID-19 Vaccine
and Treatment Strategy](/covid-19-vaccine-and-treatment-strategy "COVID-19
Vaccine and Treatment Strategy") is compliant with the Privacy Act and any
other legislation that is relevant to the COVID-19 vaccine rollout.

Read more about [privacy and security for the COVID‑19 vaccine rollout](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information
"COVID-19 vaccines privacy and security information") on our website
including:

  * the [COVID-19 vaccinations privacy notice](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations "Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations ") explains how we collect, use and handle your personal information safely and securely for the COVID-19 vaccine rollout;
  * how your information is handled when you register your interest for a vaccination;
  * the Privacy Impact Assessments for the implementation of the COVID-19 Vaccine Strategy; and
  * privacy notices for individuals and vaccine providers.

For general privacy matters, see our [website privacy policy](/using-our-
websites/website-privacy-policy "Website privacy policy") and our [full
privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy policy").

## Contacts

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Departmental privacy enquiries ](/contacts/departmental-privacy-
enquiries?language=en)

Contact to find out more about privacy within the department, or to make a
privacy enquiry or complaint.

Privacy officer:

[privacy@health.gov.au](mailto:privacy@health.gov.au)

Phone:

[02 6289 1555](tel:02 6289 1555)

Freecall:

[1800 020 103](tel:1800 020 103)

Last updated:

9 July 2022

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
    * [Privacy impact assessment register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-impact-assessment-register)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care reform webinars](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-aged-care-reform-webinars)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care announcements and newsletters](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-aged-care-sector-newsletters-and-alerts)
    * [Privacy notice for consumers using the booking platform for COVID 19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-consumers-using-the-commonwealth-procured-booking-platform-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 training](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-training)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 mental health updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-mental-health-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccines update](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccines-update)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 weekly updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-updates-for-gps)
    * [Privacy notice for Health Portfolio Federal Budget Information](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-health-portfolio-federal-budget-information)
    * [Privacy notice for MRFF newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-mrff-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for National Immunisation Program (NIP) updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-national-immunisation-program-nip-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS – participants and family members](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross-participants-and-family-members)
    * [Collection notice for the Clinician Vaccine Integration Platform (CVIP)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/collection-notice-for-the-clinician-vaccine-integrated-platform-cvip)
    * [Privacy notice for the contact a minister form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-contact-a-minister-form)
    * [Privacy policy for the COVIDSafe app](https://covidsafe.gov.au/privacy-policy.html)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-patients)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-patients)
    * [Privacy Notice for Australian Immunisation Handbook updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-australian-immunisation-handbook-updates)
    * [Privacy Notice for the Register of Interest for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-register-of-interest-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines updates for multicultural communities](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-and-covid-19-vaccines-updates-for-multicultural-communities)
    * [Privacy notice for My Aged Care Learning Management System (MAClearning)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-my-aged-care-learning-management-system-maclearning)
    * [Privacy notice for the COVID-19 pandemic response workforce expression of interest form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-covid-19-pandemic-response-workforce-expression-of-interest-form)
    * [Privacy notice for the Government Provider Management System](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-gpms)
    * [Privacy notice for the MBS Review newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for the MRAC communique](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee-communique)
    * [Privacy notice for the Re-engaging Volunteers into Residential Aged Care Facilities program](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-re-engaging-volunteers-into-residential-aged-care-facilities-program)
    * [Privacy notice for vaccination providers using the COVID-19 Vaccine Administration System (CVAS)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-vaccination-providers-using-the-covid-19-vaccine-administration-system-cvas)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

