Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Resources](/resources)
  3. [Collections](/resources/collections)

[Collections](/resources/collections)

# Budget 2023–24

Fact sheets and other health, aged care and sport information from the 2023–24
Budget.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Budget 2023–24&url=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/budget-2023-24)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/budget-2023-24)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Budget 2023–24&body=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/budget-2023-24)

Loading...

![Budget
2023–24](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-04/budget-2023-24.png?itok=4CCDsf5r)

Scroll down to access downloads and media.

In this collection

## Ministers' media releases

  * [Budget 2023–⁠24: Building a stronger Medicare](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/budget-2023-24-building-a-stronger-medicare "Budget 2023–⁠24: Building a stronger Medicare")

[Budget 2023–⁠24: Delivering the largest ever pay rise to aged care
workers](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/budget-2023-24-delivering-
the-largest-ever-pay-rise-to-aged-care-workers "Budget 2023–⁠24: Delivering
the largest ever pay rise to aged care workers")

## Portfolio Budget Statements

  * ![Budget 2023–⁠24: Portfolio Budget Statements](/sites/default/files/2023-05/health-portfolio-budget-statements-budget-2023-24_0.png)

###  [Health Portfolio Budget Statements – Budget 2023–24
](/resources/publications/health-portfolio-budget-statements-
budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

Portfolio Budget Statements from the 2023–24 Budget.

## Stakeholder pack

  * ![Budget 2023–⁠24: Stakeholder pack](/sites/default/files/2023-05/stakeholder-pack-budget-2023-24_0.png)

###  [Stakeholder pack – Budget 2023–24 ](/resources/publications/stakeholder-
pack-budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

A complete set of Budget documents for Health's stakeholders or members of the
public.

## Overview

  * ![Budget 2023–⁠24: Overview](/sites/default/files/2023-05/overview-budget-2023-24_0.png)

###  [Overview – Budget 2023–24 ](/resources/publications/overview-
budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

An overview of the 2023–⁠24 Budget. This overview includes measures for
Medicare, First Nations health, mental health, health prevention and
protection, smoking and vaping, and the aged care workforce.

  * ![Budget 2023–⁠24: Benefits fact sheet](/sites/default/files/2023-05/improving-the-lives-of-australians-budget-2023-24.jpg)

###  [Improving the lives of Australians – Budget 2023–24
](/resources/publications/improving-the-lives-of-australians-
budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

This Budget 2023–24 fact sheet outlines measures to put patients at the centre
of healthcare and strengthen Medicare for all Australians.

## Fact sheets

  * ![Budget 2023–⁠24: Medicare fact sheet](/sites/default/files/2023-05/building-a-stronger-medicare-budget-2023-24.jpg)

###  [Building a stronger Medicare – Budget 2023–24
](/resources/publications/building-a-stronger-medicare-
budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

This Budget 2023–24 fact sheet outlines significant reforms to Medicare,
delivering critical funding to meet the urgent healthcare needs of today. It
responds to the recommendations of the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce and
takes key steps to address challenges in our healthcare system.  

  * ![Budget 2023–⁠24: Aged care fact sheet](/sites/default/files/2023-05/delivering-the-largest-ever-pay-rise-to-aged-care-workers-budget-2023-24.jpg)

###  [Delivering the largest ever pay rise to aged care workers – Budget
2023–24 ](/resources/publications/delivering-the-largest-ever-pay-rise-to-
aged-care-workers-budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

This Budget 2023–24 fact sheet outlines measures to increase the wages of aged
care workers, roll out a new regulatory model, and embed new aged care
assessment arrangements.

  * ![Budget 2023–⁠24: Preventive health fact sheet](/sites/default/files/2023-05/health-protection-preventive-health-and-sport-budget-2023-24.jpg)

###  [Health protection, preventive health and sport – Budget 2023–24
](/resources/publications/health-protection-preventive-health-and-sport-
budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

This Budget 2023–24 fact sheet outlines continued investments in health
protection, preventive health and sport.

  * ![Budget 2023–⁠24: Mental health fact sheet](/sites/default/files/2023-05/laying-the-groundwork-for-mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-system-reform-budget-2023-24.jpg)

###  [Laying the groundwork for mental health and suicide prevention system
reform – Budget 2023–24 ](/resources/publications/laying-the-groundwork-for-
mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-system-reform-budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

This Budget 2023–24 fact sheet outlines reforms to the mental health and
suicide prevention system. The Australian Government will address workforce
shortages and urgent gaps, and extend critical services. This will lay the
groundwork for future reform.

  * ![Budget 2023–⁠24: Nicotine fact sheet](/sites/default/files/2023-05/tackling-smoking-and-vaping-and-improving-cancer-outcomes-budget-2023-24.jpg)

###  [Tackling smoking and vaping, and improving cancer outcomes – Budget
2023–24 ](/resources/publications/tackling-smoking-and-vaping-and-improving-
cancer-outcomes-budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

This Budget 2023–24 fact sheet outlines measures to reduce smoking and vaping
rates through stronger legislation, enforcement, education and support.

We aim to provide documents in an accessible format. If you're having problems
using a document with your accessibility tools, [please contact us for
help](/request-accessible-
format?destination=/resources/collections/budget-2023-24).

Publication date:

9 May 2023

Last updated:

16 May 2023

Audience:

General public

Tags:

  * [About the department](/topics/about-the-department)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

