Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

#  Minister for Health and Aged Care – press conference in Canberra – 24 May
2023

Read the transcript of Minister Butler's press conference in Canberra about
listing of Voxzogo on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme for children and
adolescents with achondroplasia, women's health, traditional Indian medicine,
First Nations mental health, aged care, telehealth and vaping.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text= Minister for Health and Aged Care – press conference in Canberra – 24 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-in-canberra-24-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-in-canberra-24-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject= Minister for Health and Aged Care – press conference in Canberra – 24 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-in-canberra-24-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

24 May 2023

Date published:

24 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**MINISTER FOR HEALTH AND AGED CARE MARK BUTLER:** Thanks so much for coming
out for this really, really exciting occasion for the listing of a terrific
new treatment – a world leading new hope for life for hundreds and hundreds of
families here in Australia but around the world as well. Truly nation leading
work, and world leading work undertaken here over the last 10 years in
Australia.

Today, I'm delighted to announce that Voxzogo will be listed on the PBS,
effective from the 1st of May. This is a terrific, exciting new treatment for
achondroplasia, which is the most common form of dwarfism all around the
world. This is a very serious condition that particularly impacts people when
they're at their younger ages. Patients with this condition are 50 times more
likely to die before their fifth birthday than the national average. And if
they survive that long, there are a range of very invasive major pieces of
surgery, they are likely to have to undertake, as well.

Now, here in Australia, led by the Murdoch Children’s Research Institute,
particularly Professor Ravi who will say a few words, there have been clinical
trials underway with the company BioMarin, for a new treatment that
effectively attacks the genetic causes of this condition and allows the bone
growth to resume in a much more standard way. Those clinical trials over the
last 10 years have shown terrific effects for these young children, and has
now been approved by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee and listed
on the PBS. We think there are about 140 young Australians who will benefit
from this listing every single year and being listed on the PBS, as people
know, makes it affordable for families. Without a PBS listing, this treatment
would cost as much as $330,000 for families every single year. These
treatments will start very young in life, Dr Ravi will talk about that, but
very, very young and endure right through until the growth plates close, which
is around 16 or 18 years of age. So, $330,000 a year for maybe 15 to 16 years
of life is obviously beyond the means of any family, which is why the PBS is
such a terrific medicine system here in Australia. Instead of paying $330,000,
this treatment will be available at PBS prices – $30 a script or even $7 for
concessional patients.

I want to pay amazing tribute to the families who've been part of these
clinical trials, the researchers from the Murdoch Children’s Research
Institute that have led the clinical trials work around the world here for 10
years. As I've said, amazing work now pays off for the recognition of this
treatment, and a listing on the PBS and obviously also the pharmaceutical
company that has led this work BioMarin. Without further ado, I'll ask
Professor Ravi to say a few words and then after a couple of more
contributions, I'm happy to take questions.

**PROFESSOR RAVI SAVAIRAYAN:** Thank you very much, Minister. It's an absolute
pleasure to be here and today marks a very special occasion. I'd like to, on
behalf of all the families, thank the Minister and the Australian Government
for making the very foresighted decision to list this new medication, Voxzogo,
on the PBS scheme, which means that for every child in Australia, and for
every parent in Australia who wishes to use this medication as a lifesaving
and definitely lifechanging medication in their child, they have the
opportunity to do so. That's an important piece in terms of equity. I think
that's an incredible outcome. Specifically, I'd like to thank the real heroes
of today, represented by Oscar, Ari and Kira because these are the children
and their brave families who have put their trust in our hands and the hope
that rigorous science will bring around life changing benefits for their
children.

Achondroplasia, as the Minister has correctly said, it's not just a condition
that affects height. It's a lifelong and serious condition. And really, for
many years, I was left in embarrassed silence when patients would ask me,
well, what can you do about my child's problem? Because there'd been no real
advances and treatment despite the fact the gene from achondroplasia was found
about 30 years ago. I guess the first clue that there might be an answer came
in 2011, when I happened to be convening an international bone meeting in Palm
Cove, and I found out that a company called BioMarin had a new molecule that
looked very promising and in achondroplasia animal models had helped improve
bone growth. We invited the company to come to our meeting in Palm Cove in
2011 and they presented some very compelling data. But of course, we needed to
trial this in young children with achondroplasia and I spoke to the Chief
Medical Officer at the time, and he said, we're looking at starting a small
trial of 35 patients, how many can Australia take? And I said, 'we'll take
them all'. That was the beginning of a great journey.

In the past 10 years, we've led those trials from initial proof of concept to
trials in children. Currently, we have over 250 children worldwide in trials
of vosoritide, continuing to show its effectiveness over time, and also its
safety profile. It's important to note that this medication is not just to
increase height, because children with achondroplasia experience a variety of
health complications. We are trying to increase health and lifelong health for
these children so that they can have increased independence, better
functionality, decreased complications, and hopefully will put me out of a job
sometime because they don't need to come and seek doctors like myself.

It's a fantastic day. As the global lead investigator, we're really proud of
the Murdoch, that has led all these trials from the beginning to the end. And
I hope Minister, that this can provide a great template for all Australians
living with rare genetic diseases, because we want to have cures for our
children, and we want them to live better lives and healthier lives. Today's a
great day. It's great to be celebrating this amazing occasion in our nation's
capital. And again, I'd like to thank my profound gratitude to the Health
Minister and the Australian Government for making this decision and the
children who have been on this journey with us, thank you very much.

**JOURNALIST:** Professor, would you mind just explaining in layman's terms,
what the drug actually does and how it works?

**PROFESSOR SAVAIRAYAN:** Sure, so achondroplasia is like trying to grow your
bones, it's like trying to drive a car with a handbrake on, you can't reach
average speeds. This medication comes in by precise mechanism, and basically
takes that handbrake off, so that average bone growth can resume. It really is
like a lock and key therapy. It's one a great example of personalised and
precision medicine.

**JOURNALIST:** And how effective has it been so far? And what do you expect
from the hundreds of kids that are going to be able to access it now?

**PROFESSOR SAVAIRAYAN:** We've already seen that growth is resuming to more
average levels. That's translating into better function and better
independence and in the very youngest children, we have some data that's going
to be published very soon, showing that it may actually increase the diameter
of the spinal cord and the base of the skull, which will hopefully impact
those really, really serious things like spinal cord compression and sudden
death and that increased incidence of sudden death as, as the Minister has
already alluded to. So really life changing, lifesaving. It’s much more than
height, it's really about continuing health.

**JOURNALIST:** How widely has the drug being used so far?

**PROFESSOR SAVAIRAYAN:** It has now been approved in over 37 countries and
every week, we're getting more and more approvals across the world. We believe
that there's over 400,000 people worldwide impacted. I guess it was really
nice to get emails from around the world saying, how do we move to Melbourne?
That's what we want. We want people coming to Australia for the best
innovation and science so that we can we lead the world in that way.

**KATHRYN EVANS, MANAGING DIRECTOR BIOMARIN PHARMACY AUSTRALIA:** Thank you,
my name is Kathryn Evans. I'm the Managing Director for BioMarin here in
Australia and it’s my pleasure to be here today. I want to thank the Minister
and the Australian Government for listing Voxzogo on the PBS from the 1st of
May, for children and adolescents with achondroplasia whose growth plates are
not closed. This is a real milestone to have this option available for all
Australian families who would choose to take it up after a diagnosis. I want
to acknowledge Professor Kathryn North AC, the Director of the Murdoch
Children's Research Institute, and in particular, the families that that Ravi
acknowledged before because without them, we wouldn't have got to this point.

I really want to reiterate Ravi’s comments that this has been a really great
partnership. We don't do these things in isolation and having the ability to
partner with research organisations and investigators like Ravi enables us to
bring these products through from those early stages of understanding what
these molecules do in the mouse model right through to putting them to market
and bringing them to patients because they is at the heart of what we're
doing.

BioMarin was founded in Northern California just 25 years ago. Many of you
will be familiar with Silicon Valley Tech Hub, which is about an hour south of
San Francisco city. But what you might not know is that San Francisco Bay area
is also home to a big biotechnology hub. BioMarin is one of those companies
based less than an hour north of San Francisco city over the Golden Gate
Bridge and we have a very singular purpose, which is transforming lives
through genetic discovery. What that means is that we've been able to bring
new innovative therapies to patients with rare diseases. We have 8 marketed
products and today's announcement brings the sixth one here to Australian
patients.

Last year was our 10th anniversary here in Australia. I'm so proud and so
thrilled to have been partnering with, with people like Professor Ravi through
that journey because it is really a partnership. We need to bring all of these
people together and no more so than the families who, as Ravi said, who have
put their trust in all of us to get to this point. This is a real milestone,
we're so thrilled to be committed to the achondroplasia community here in
Australia. Australia really is one of the leaders in the world in this area.
And we're looking forward to bringing more important therapies like this to
Australian patients.

**PROFESSOR KATHRYN NORTH, AC, DIRECTOR MURDOCH CHILDREN’S RESEARCH
INSTITUTE:** Thank you. Hi, everyone, I'm Katherine North. I'm the director of
the Murdoch Children's Research Institute. And just a few points that I'd like
to make after what you've heard about this momentous moment. First of all, I'd
like to thank Kathryn Evans from BioMarin. And what an amazing partnership it
has been, from research into clinical care, into partnerships with industry –
which is the only way that we can really make these sorts of steps forward
happen at scale.

I've been talking about this being a moment in history. Because a gene for
achondroplasia was discovered 30 years ago. 30 years ago, I, like Ravi, was –
actually Ravi is much younger than me – was training as a clinical geneticist.
And it was a very different world. And we were able to give a diagnosis to
less than 1 in 10 kids with rare genetic disorders that affect around 1 in 12
of our community. And there were no treatments. So when a parent has a child
that's developing in a different way, what they want the answers to: why is
this happening? What is the diagnosis? What can I expect for the future for my
child? What are the risks to my other kids or my other family members? And
most importantly, what can you do about it? How can you treat to it? And as a
clinician, it's been so frustrating way back then to not be able to answer any
of those questions.

The promise of genetic medicine and now as we go into what's known as the
genomic era, where we have much better technologies to look at genes, is that
to make a diagnosis is fundamental so that we can understand what the
mechanism of disease is – as Ravi has described. And then target therapies to
that change, that the genetic abnormality has caused.

So, 30 years ago, as I said, the achondroplasia gene was discovered. And to
me, this is a moment in history, because today, Ravi and all of his colleagues
around the world can answer all of those questions that a parent would say to
them when the diagnosis is made. And we are able to offer effective therapies.
The second thing that I'm incredibly proud of is that we in Australia have led
these international trials that are changing the lives of children around the
world. And so what now has given Australia the edge in this area? I think that
we have a culture of excellence and innovation and collaboration in our health
and medical research sector. And I think that was very obvious during the
COVID pandemic. We have outstanding people, outstanding researchers, and it
was Ravi's passion and enthusiasm, but also the scientific rigor and
excellence that's necessary to do the studies to take a drug like this from a
mouse model into the patient and into market. Those first trials that Ravi
talked about with those 35 patients back in 2013, were the first trials in the
world for children with dwarfism and that happened right here in Australia. In
Australia, we've also embraced the power of genomics and genomic research.

And we're now leading in a number of areas where we're implementing this new
technology, really a disruptive technology into clinical practice. We have
very strong global collaborations, whether it's in discovery research, or in
clinical trials, so that we bring the very best in international practice and
make it happen here in Australia. No longer do you need to go overseas to get
the treatment or the best care. Our strong national networks also allow us to
function as a single cohort of 26 million people, which is very important for
us to be competitive on the world stage. Combined with our quality, our speed
our people, I think that's what's given us the competitive advantage to
underpin our wonderful partnership with BioMarin. The final piece of the
puzzle is the great support that we've had from the Australian Government.
We've made a major investment in genomics research over the years, and it's
led to a supportive environment where we can bring the very best ideas to
fruition very quickly, and drive them into clinical practice to benefit
patients and their families. And this investment in effective therapies will
ensure equity of access, which is so important to life changing medications.
So I'd like to finish by thanking you, Minister Butler and your Government for
what I think is quite visionary in terms of investing in these life-changing
treatments that are going to change lives. Thank you so much.

**JOURNALIST:** There are warnings that Cairns is about to lose private
maternity services, which would follow a string of similar closures. Is the
federal government concerned about women in regional Australia missing out on
these essential services and will it step in to help keep them open?

**BUTLER:** We’re obviously very deeply concerned about equity of access
across regional Australia, including particularly for women's health right
through the reproductive spectrum. So we will be looking at those reports very
carefully. At a more systemic level, Ged Kearney the Assistant Minister for
Health with responsibility for women's health, is steering a process to
examine all of these challenges across Australia, particularly in regional
Australia. Many of them are driven by workforce shortages that have been
really exacerbated by the COVID pandemic. So we take very seriously reports
like the one you've mentioned, and we want to engage with private sector
stakeholders, and obviously, the Queensland State Government to see what we
can do to alleviate those pressures and ensure there is real equity of access
to services in regional Australia.

**JOURNALIST:** Minister, the Indian Government is calling for more
alternative practices to be added to Medicare. Is this something that the
government is considering. And what would that process involve?

**BUTLER:** We're very interested to welcome the expansion of traditional
Indian medicine services here in Australia, as we have for traditional Chinese
medicine over years, as well. These are obviously therapies that have a long
history and are very deeply embedded in Indian culture. And that's such a big
part of Australia now, a very fast-growing part of Australia. As I've said
over the last few days, we welcome applications from medical practitioners or
sponsors for therapies, including from traditional medicine areas like India
and China. They obviously need to go through the usual processes, and that may
be an assessment by the Medical Services Advisory Committee. But we're also
going to examine, obviously, the place of practitioners of traditional Indian
medicine as we have in the past of traditional Chinese medicine.

**JOURNALIST:** Minister, the government recently put about $10 million
towards Indigenous mental health in the Budget ahead of the referendum. And
we've seen the ASIO boss yesterday say there's the possibility of spontaneous
violence. Do you have any concerns about the tone of public debate heading
into the vote?

**BUTLER:** We know through often the bitter experience of the plebiscite
around marriage equality that these things do have an impact on levels of
mental distress on parts of the community that are subject to an Australian
vote. And in that case, it was gay and lesbian Australians, and in this case
will be First Nations people. So we have set aside money to support the mental
health of Indigenous Australians through this process because we know through
that bitter experience that sometimes, at the edges, the debate can become
bitter, it can become personal, it can become distressing and hurtful. Now we
will engage with the Indigenous health sector through NACCHO – the Community
Controlled Health Organisation sector about the deployment of those funds. And
we're obviously going to monitor the mental health of Indigenous Australians
through this process very closely.

**JOURNALIST:** But also just in regards to what ASIO said yesterday. Do you
have any concerns generally about the tone of debate?

**BUTLER:** My job is as Minister for Health. Obviously, I've noticed the
remarks made by the Director General of ASIO. I don't have direct
responsibility for those issues, you know, threats of violence, for example.
My job is to look after the health, including the mental health, of all
Australians. And through this referendum process, obviously, First Nations
people will be the subject of a vigorous national debate. And unfortunately,
at the edges, that debate sometimes becomes deeply hurtful, deeply personal.
As to the possibility of violence, I'll leave that for other relevant
ministers to talk to.

**JOURNALIST:** Last night at Senate Estimates the Age Discrimination
Commissioner raised concerns about the elderly woman who was tasered in the
aged care home. The Commissioner suggested that maybe police shouldn't be the
first responders in situations like these, sort of noting that residents in
aged care homes might be becoming older, more distressed as the ageing
population. Can I ask your concern on that? I wouldn’t ask you to weigh in on
that specific case. But generally, should police be the first responders in
aged care homes, or should there be some other rather specialised response for
residents in distress like this case?

**BUTLER:** The first thing to say is how deeply distressed I think all of us
have been by these reports, and the impact it's had on this elderly lady and
her family. And other reports that are surfacing, in this context. Deeply,
deeply distressing. Obviously, as you know, Josh, this is the subject of a
police investigation, as I understand it, at a state level. We also have the
Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission looking at this from an aged care
regulation perspective. And I know the Minister for Aged Care is monitoring
this very closely. And we will be very open about what we learned from this
case and other cases that have been ventilated in the context. Obviously,
these matters, the response to some of these calls by aged care facilities,
are directly a matter of state government responsibility. But I do hope that
in time we are able to have a mature, informed conversation about the way in
which people with dementia, as we've had about people experiencing mental
illness, are responded to. You know, often sometimes these are these are calls
that are made by aged care facilities. But we need to make sure that the
response is sensitive to the conditions that so many residents of aged care
live in now, which is substantial cognitive impairment through dementia. So
I'm not going to pre-empt what might come out of this. Obviously, everyone's
thoughts right now are with that woman and her family. But over time, I
suspect there will be the need for that sort of a conversation.

**JOURNALIST:** Minister, a question on telehealth. A lot of private companies
have entered this space, and are both prescribing and supplying drugs to
Australians, without a video consult without a phone call without even fact
checking information? Do you think that this is good medical practice? And do
you think that the Medical Board of Australia needs to tighten its regulation
in this space?

**BUTLER:** I think everyone understands that we made an enormous leap in
technology in the health sector through the COVID pandemic, through necessity,
and much of that has been terrific for patients and terrific for providers,
particularly doctors and nurses. But we need to make sure that that happens in
a way that aligns with good clinical practice. And I have been concerned at
some of the reports about models – or business models in particular – that
have developed to fill what is clearly a shortage of access to traditional
doctors’ services that I've talked about to a great degree over the last
couple of years. We've got the Medical Board having a look at some of the
business models that you've talked about. Again, I don't want to pre-empt what
comes from that. But I'm determined to see that, as we harness the benefits of
modern technology - and frankly, the health sector has been pretty slow to do
that compared to other parts of the economy – but as we do harness the
benefits of that technology, we continue to adhere to good clinical practice.
And I think there is a question mark over some of these business models that
are being developed at the fringe.

**JOURNALIST:** We've heard from the head of the ADF yesterday that around 20%
to 25% of illicit drugs passing through Australia's borders are being
detected. What does that mean for your vape ban?

**BUTLER:** We've got a discussion underway within the Commonwealth between
government agencies about the way in which the clear government policy will be
implemented and enforced. And that clear government policy is to return to the
original intent of vapes or e-cigarettes, which was sold to governments around
the world as a therapeutic product to help long term smokers kick their habit.
It was not sold as a recreational product particularly targeted at the
youngest Australians. That's what it's become. And as a result, it is one of
the very serious public health menaces that we have in this country,
particularly for young Australians. I mean it has become a pathway into
cigarettes for young Australians. Which means it's no surprise, really, that
the only cohort in the community where smoking rates are actually rising, are
youngest Australians. So we are determined to adopt this as a policy. Now,
obviously, implementation requires work within the Commonwealth with agencies
like Border Force and the Therapeutic Goods Administration, in partnership
with state and territory governments. I said when I announced this policy, it
is supported by all Health Ministers – Labor and Liberal alike – across the
country. And we will have to engage with state and territories to ensure we
have a comprehensive enforcement framework. We are committed to making sure
that Commonwealth agencies are properly resourced to do that. We've made that
clear to Border Force, we've made that clear to the TGA. But the precise shape
of those resources will depend on the enforcement mechanism that we agree with
states and territories, we will start that work very quickly.

**JOURNALIST:** Minister, just on the Senate inquiry into reproductive health
access. That report is obviously coming out tomorrow. And you've said in the
past, this is something that's going to inform your decision making in the
area. We didn't see the Budget touched on it much. How soon will you be
reading it? And when will you and Ged Kearney meet to discuss it? What's the
timeline of that?

**BUTLER:** Obviously, I haven't seen the report and won't see it until it's
published. But I look forward to the report, I very strongly supported the
inquiry that was put in place by the Senate Committee. There was a very strong
response across the country, which goes back to one of the early questions
that I had, about equity of access, particularly in regional Australia. And
I'm looking forward to having a look at the report when it's published. And
we'll have more to say in due course about it.

**JOURNALIST:** Do you know when we can expect a response from that inquiry?

**BUTLER:** We'll have more to say about that in due course, we want to have a
look at the scope of the recommendations, the degree to which some
recommendations might be better, you know, relatively easy to implement, if we
accept them. Others of them may I suspect, require discussion with state and
territory governments, which will obviously take longer to implement. I'm not
going to pre-empt that. I'll have more to say about it in due course.

**JOURNALIST:** On the vapes, given the Border Force, even with its kind of
full resourcing is only able to stop or detect a quarter of narcotics coming
into the country. Despite an illicit tobacco taskforce, the illicit tobacco
market has grown. Is this task, potentially impossible? And are you worried
about a black market continuing nonetheless? And if there will be full
resources, how much money are we thinking?

**BUTLER:** We're not going to raise the white flag on what is a very serious
public health menace for young Australians. After all of the work done in
Australia and around the world to drive down smoking rates, the idea that we
would raise the white flag on a product that is deliberately designed to
create a new generation of nicotine addicts to provide a gateway to cigarettes
is simply unacceptable for us. Now, we don't pretend this is going to be easy,
as I think I've said before, these things don't come into the country in big
shipping containers labelled 'vapes'. So they are going to require a fair bit
of work, but they require work in partnership with state governments to
enforce the sale of these products as well. Four out of 5 young people have
said in research, that these are easy to get and you get them at the
convenience stores. Sometimes vape shops deliberately set up down the road
from schools because they know that is their target market. So we're confident
we can make very serious inroads into this market and respond to very clear
calls by parents and school communities and health groups that we need to act
to stamp out this public health menace.

**JOURNALIST:** On aged care and just regarding the closure of aged care
facilities. What is your response that the government is moving too fast with
this reform rollout, and would the Government consider expanding exemptions
for the 24/7 nursing requirements if metropolitan facilities seem to be the
ones that are struggling particularly with filling them, at the moment?

**BUTLER:** What we have moved fast to do is to increase the resourcing of
aged care facilities. Even after cutting $2.5 billion dollars out of aged care
just before COVID, and the added pressures of COVID that we saw particularly
hit the aged care sector – in their last Budget, the former government indexed
last year aged care funding per bed by only 1.7%. In spite of all of the
pressures that everyone knew about in that sector. Now compare that to our
Budget we delivered 2 weeks ago, the per bed increase in funding was not 1.7%
but 17%. I mean, this is a huge increase, which has been welcomed by the
sector – regarded as a game changer by providers to their financial viability.

Now, we're not going to apologise for our commitment to put nurses back into
nursing homes, to increase the time to care that carers have, strictly in line
with the recommendations of the Royal Commission. Now, there have been
closures over the last little while, as there were in substantial numbers in
the final period of the Morison Government. But those closures by and large
reflect the financial pressure that had been building on the aged care sector
since the $2.5 billion cut to aged care funding in 2016 and 2017. What you see
now, are occupancy levels in residential aged care facilities lower than at
any time in the 30 years that I've been working with this sector: occupancy
levels in the mid 80%, which does make it very hard for an aged care facility
to 'wash its face', to be viable. So you are seeing consolidation among big
providers that seek to reduce the number of facilities that they have and
increase the occupancy level and improve their financial viability. But I'll
come back to the point: a 1.7% increase per bed in the last Morrison
Government Budget compared to a 17% increase in the Budget we handed down 2
weeks ago. This is a game changer for aged care viability, at the same time
that we're lifting standards.

**JOURNALIST:** Obstetricians would say that it would help a lot if health
funds offered women fairer pregnancy cover, including making all policies
include pregnancy. Is this something the federal government is willing to take
up with insurance companies?

**BUTLER:** As you know, I think this was a matter among many others
ventilated during the Senate inquiry that you asked about a bit earlier. And I
imagine that that will be dealt with in the report. I've deliberately allowed
this inquiry to run its course. There's been a terrific response by women's
health groups, groups like the College that you refer to, and many others
besides. And I want to see how that washes out in a series of recommendations
that that committee will make to government. Thanks, everyone.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)
  * [Smoking and tobacco](/topics/smoking-and-tobacco)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

