Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

[Medicare](/topics/medicare)

# Accessing Medicare for health practitioners and industry

Health practitioners must meet certain requirements to bill for Medicare
Benefits Schedule (MBS) items under Medicare or prescribe subsidised
medicines. Pathology and diagnostic imaging services must meet accreditation
standards to access Medicare.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Accessing Medicare for health practitioners and industry&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Accessing Medicare for health practitioners and industry&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)

Loading...

On this page

## **Accessing Medicare for health practitioners**

Before being able to bill for Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) items under
Medicare, health practitioners must:

  * complete approved education
  * be registered with the [national board](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/National-Boards.aspx) relevant to their profession
  * meet [eligibility requirements](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/eligibility-to-access-medicare-benefits-medicare-benefits-for-health-professionals?context=34076) set out in the [Health Insurance Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00174) or the relevant legislation relating to their health profession

  * be [recognised by Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/recognition-for-medicare-benefits-medicare-benefits-for-health-professionals?context=34076)
  * have a [Medicare provider number](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/medicare-benefits-health-professionals/apply-provider-number-or-prescriber-number/if-youre-health-professional) to provide services
  * [claim benefits as required](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/claim-benefit-medicare-benefits-for-health-professionals?context=34076).

All health practitioners must meet [Medicare compliance
requirements](/topics/medicare/compliance "Medicare compliance") to:

  * [prescribe](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-apply-for-provider-number-if-youre-health-professional?context=34076) or [claim for supply](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/claiming-online-for-pbs-medicines?context=22861) of subsidised medicines
  * bill or claim for subsidised services
  * receive payments under Medicare.

We identify and investigate potential fraud, inappropriate practice and
incorrect billing under Medicare through different types of compliance
activities.

Read more about [getting set up with
Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/health-professionals-starting-
with-medicare?context=20) and [accessing Medicare
benefits](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-benefits-for-health-
professionals), including for:

  * [interns, registrars and trainees](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/intern-registrar-and-trainee-eligibility-requirements?context=34076)
  * [general practitioners, specialists and consultant physicians](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/gp-medical-specialist-and-consultant-physician-eligibility-requirements?context=34076)
  * [nurse practitioners and midwives](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/nurse-practitioner-and-midwife-eligibility-for-medicare-services?context=34076)
  * [allied health professionals](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/allied-health-professional-eligibility-requirements-to-access-medicare-benefits?context=34076)
  * [dental practitioners](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/dental-practitioner-eligibility-requirements-to-access-medicare-benefits?context=34076)
  * [optometrists](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/optometrist-eligibility-requirements-to-access-medicare-benefits?context=34076).

If you did your medical training overseas or did not have Australian
citizenship when you registered, you must meet [extra requirements to access
Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/overseas-trained-doctors-and-
foreign-graduates-eligibility-requirements-for-medicare?context=34076).

Read more about [services, payments and programs for health
practitioners](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/health-
professionals?context=60090).

## **Accreditation and standards to access Medicare benefits**

### **Pathology services**

Pathology services must meet [accreditation
standards](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/node/6488) to ensure quality of
care and the safety of patients.

Pathology services can only access Medicare MBS item benefits if:

  * the laboratory is [accredited](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/accredited-pathology-laboratories)
  * an [approved pathology practitioner](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/approved-pathology-practitioners) provides the service
  * the proprietor is an [Approved Pathology Authority](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/approved-pathology-authorities).

Learn more about [pathology accreditation](/node/43414#pathology-
accreditation).

### **Diagnostic imaging services**

Diagnostic imaging services must meet [accreditation
standards](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/standards/diagnostic-
imaging/diagnostic-imaging-accreditation-scheme-standards) to ensure quality
of care and the safety of patients.

Diagnostic imaging services can only access Medicare MBS item benefits if
they:

  * have a [location specific practice number](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-register-your-practice?context=23066)
  * are [accredited](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-get-your-practice-accredited-once-you-have-location-specific-practice-number-lspn?context=23066) under the [Diagnostic Imaging Accreditation Scheme](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/standards/diagnostic-imaging/diagnostic-imaging-accreditation-scheme)
  * have [eligible equipment](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/diagnostic-imaging/mri-and-pet-locations).

Learn more about [diagnostic imaging
accreditation](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-eligibility-to-
provide-diagnostic-imaging-and-radiation-oncology-services).

## **Accessing Medicare subsidies for industry**

Manufacturers and sponsors of a health service or product can
[apply](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health/health-technology-assessments/for-subsidy#how-to-apply) for it
to be listed on the
[MBS](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
or [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)
Schedule](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home). We then conduct a [health
technology assessment](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/health-
technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/for-subsidy) to
decide whether to subsidise it.

Weâ€™re building the [Health Products
Portal](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/health-products-
portal-initiative) so we can work more efficiently with the medicines and
technology sector. The portal will enable industry to make, track, pay for
(where applicable), and manage submissions for new products and services to be
listed on the MBS and PBS Schedule.

Last updated:

30 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
    * [Allied health professionals](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/allied-health-professionals)
    * [Dentists and dental practitioners](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/dentist-and-dental-practitioners)
    * [Doctors and specialists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists)
    * [Nurse practitioners](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/nurse-practitioners)
    * [Optometrists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/optometrists)
    * [Participating midwives](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/participating-midwives)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

