Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Living with COVID – primary care package

The Living with COVID package supports primary care to manage COVID-19
patients confidently, effectively, and safely, while minimising pressure on
the health care system. Find out how the measures work and how you can access
them for your patients.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Living with COVID – primary care package&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/living-with-covid-primary-care-package)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/living-with-covid-primary-care-package)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Living with COVID – primary care package&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/living-with-covid-primary-care-package)

Loading...

###  [ Strengthening COVID-19 support services ](/our-work/living-with-covid-
primary-care-package/strengthening-covid-19-support-services)

We are working with healthdirect Australia to establish a national 'Living
with COVID' service for assessing, triaging and connecting people who test
positive for COVID-19 to healthcare services.

###  [ New Medicare Rebates ](/our-work/living-with-covid-primary-care-
package/medicare-rebates-for-covid-19-treatment)

A temporary MBS item, 93715, is now available to support you managing COVID-19
patients.

###  [ Accessing PPE ](/our-work/living-with-covid-primary-care-
package/personal-protective-equipment-ppe-for-primary-care-providers)

We are working to make PPE bundles and pulse oximeters available to eligible
primary care providers.

###  [ Care and treatment pathways ](/our-work/living-with-covid-primary-care-
package/regional-care-and-treatment-pathways-for-people-who-test-positive-for-
covid-19)

We are working with primary health and local hospital networks to ensure
people who test positive to COVID-19 can be cared for and managed in the best
possible way.

![COVID-19 vaccination
tile](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/covid-19_vaccination_0.png?itok=N0IL09Hg)

## COVID-19 management guidelines

There are a range of resources available to help you care for and manage
COVID-19 patients.

[See the latest guidelines](https://health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/living-with-covid-primary-care-package/covid-19-management-
guidelines-for-primary-care-providers)

Last updated:

1 April 2022

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

