Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

#  Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and Sally Bryant, ABC
Riverina - 5 May 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's interview with Sally
Bryant about Head to Health, bulk-billing, strengthening Medicare, cancer
care, and immigration for medical professionals.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text= Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and Sally Bryant, ABC Riverina - 5 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-sally-bryant-abc-riverina-5-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-sally-bryant-abc-riverina-5-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject= Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and Sally Bryant, ABC Riverina - 5 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-sally-bryant-abc-riverina-5-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

5 May 2023

Date published:

5 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**SALLY BRYANT, HOST** Mental health care is an ongoing issue right across the
region and the impact of the pandemic has only heightened the need for help
for many of us and many in our communities. Now, it turns out there's a new
and a free mental health care service that's going to be made available for
regions, including the Riverina. It's called Head to Health service. Joining
me to talk a bit about what it is and how it's going to work is the Assistant
Minister for Health, Emma McBride, the Member for the Federal seat of Dobell.
Good morning.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Good morning, Sally. Good to be with you.

**SALLY BRYANT, HOST** Thank you for joining me this morning. What is the
service going to look like?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Head to Health is a new service. What
Head to Health means is that someone can walk in for mental health support,
it's free, they don't need an appointment, they don't need a referral, and
they will see multidisciplinary team based care from psychologists,
occupational therapists, social workers and counsellors. And I'm really
pleased that in a joint commitment in partnership with the New South Wales
Government, that we'll be rolling out 22 adult clinics across the state, four
up and running already, four are due to later this year, and seven more are
due to open next year including Head to Health Wagga Wagga.

**SALLY BRYANT, HOST** So where else around New South Wales are these going to
be based.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** So at the moment we have a Head to Health
in Penrith, Lismore, Canterbury and the Central Coast. Across this year, four
more will be open, or are due to open in Liverpool, Shellharbour, Paramatta
and Hawkesbury. And we have seven more that are due to open, or are scheduled
to open next year, including in Coffs Harbour, Dubbo and Wagga Wagga.

**SALLY BRYANT, HOST** So where is the funding coming from for the service?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Initially the service was Commonwealth
funded and now there is a partnership with the New South Wales Government
which will mean that more services will be rolled out to more places in New
South Wales. We know that there is a growing demand for mental health care and
support. And we know that that demand requires something that is between what
you would receive at your GP the crisis that would lead someone to ending up
in an emergency department. So this Head to Health service fits between, their
a clinic, as I said, that provides free walk-in mental health care and support
and what makes it really accessible for people is that they don't need an
appointment, they don't need a referral, they can walk in and receive that
care and support they need.

**SALLY BRYANT, HOST** Doctors all across Australia say they're unable to bulk
build right now, they just can't afford to do it. People can't see doctors as
often as they need to and mental health is part of that need as well. Is there
going to be any movement in increasing the Medicare rebate? I mean, we say we
have a publicly funded health service, but if you have to pay for a doctor's
appointment it is a bit of a furphy isn't it?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** As the Health Minister, Minister Butler,
has said, making access to GPs and primary care more accessible and affordable
is a top priority of our government. Minister Butler stood up the
Strengthening Medicare Taskforce just after we were elected working very
closely with the AMA, with the Medical Collages, and some of those
recommendations have been already spoken to, but it is front of mind to make
sure that every Australian wherever they will be able to access health care
when and where they need it and more affordably.

**SALLY BRYANT, HOST** Because it's pretty frightening isn't it, if you look
at what is laughingly being referred to as the 'cozzie livs' at the moment.
People are having to decide whether they pay their rent or their electricity
bill, whether they pay off their car, and then I'm assuming that medical care
is probably slipping down the list.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Cost of living is front of mind for our
government as we as we head into the budget next week, particularly easing the
cost of living for the most vulnerable Australians. But there will be, as
we've seen already, cheaper medicines which came into effect on the first of
January, cheaper childcare, there'll be a responsible cost of living measures
that provide relief without adding to inflationary pressures.

**SALLY BRYANT, HOST** There's a story in the news in early AM this morning
about the need to review the way doctors, the hoops they have to jump through
to get locally qualified, what is the government doing on that front?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Already medical practitioners and other
health care practitioners are a top priority through our immigration and
migration process. There has been feedback including from medical
practitioners and Medical Colleges about the processes that medical
practitioners who are qualified in other parts of the world need to go through
in order to practice in Australia. Those are necessary for Australians to know
that they're having healthcare practitioners that will provide quality care
that will provide safe care, but I understand that there is consideration
about how they work in practice to make sure that we can streamline access to
medical practitioners right across Australia.

**SALLY BRYANT, HOST** The other issue that has been raised locally too is the
need for cancer treatments to be bulk billed.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** I'm a health care worker myself and I
worked in a regional hospital for nearly 10 years, and the difference it made
having a cancer care centre within the health district that I worked meant
that local people, particularly regional people could afford care close to
home, and that makes such a big difference when someone is going through their
cancer journey. I know that there's lots of considerations going into the
budget, including how to make health care more affordable for many
Australians, but I'm not going to speculate on budget measures as we head into
the budget just next Tuesday.

**SALLY BRYANT, HOST** Emma McBride, Assistant Minister for Health, very nice
of you to join me this morning.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Thank you so much. Good to be with you,
Sally.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

