Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)
  4. [Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)

[Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications)

# District of Workforce Shortage

The District of Workforce Shortage (DWS) classification is a health workforce
classification for specialist medical practitioners. Read about locations
classified DWS and learn how to find them.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=District of Workforce Shortage&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=District of Workforce Shortage&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws)

Loading...

**The DWS was updated on 21 July 2022. The Health locator tool and web
information reflects the 2022 update. The newly elected Australian Government
is committed to finalising the current review of the DWS methodology.
Consideration of the review outcomes will be finalised in coming months.**

## **About DWS classification**

A DWS is an area where people have poor access to specialist medical
practitioners. This is measured by assessing the full-time specialist-
equivalent level for an area.

## **DWS classification process**

We use population and Medicare billing data to get a ratio of specialists to
population in each geographical area in Australia.

An area is classified as DWS if:

  * its ratio of specialists to population is less than the national average
  * it has an [Australian Statistical Geography Standard - Remoteness Area](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgs-ra) classification of RA 3 to RA 5 (i.e. rural to remote areas).

## **How we use the DWS classification**

Overseas trained graduate specialists subject to [section
19AB](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-
do/19ab) of Australia’s Health Insurance Act 1973 may need to work in a
location classified DWS to access Medicare.

All other specialities are determined as DWS if the location is classified as
Remoteness Area (RA) 3 or greater, or if the SA3 reports an FSE per 100,000
lower than the 3 per 100,000 for that speciality. In July 2022, there were 8
specialities in this category:

  * anaesthetics
  * cardiology
  * diagnostic radiology
  * general surgery
  * obstetrics and gynaecology
  * ophthalmology
  * medical oncology
  * psychiatry.

Under the [Bonded Medical
Places](https://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-
st-bmp) scheme, specialists can work in:

  * locations classified [Modified Monash Model](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/mmm) MM 2 to 7
  * locations other than inner metropolitan areas of major capital cities 
  * a location that is inner metropolitan if that location is DWS for their specialty.

## **Updating the DWS classification**

We update the DWS every year. The most recent update to the DWS took effect on
21 July 2022.

The DWS classification of an area can change when there has been a significant
shift in access to health care since the previous annual update. This might be
due to changes in the workforce, or in the size or makeup of the population.

### **Changes in DWS status**

If an area loses DWS, this means that there is measurably more services access
than there was previously.

Doctors who hold an existing exemption under section 19AB of the [Health
Insurance Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2021C00231) can
continue to practise at their location provided they continue to meet the
conditions of their exemption. In addition, doctors already in employment
negotiations with a practice prior to a status change will still be eligible
for an exemption if they provide documentary evidence of this with their
application.

Practices unable to employ restricted medical practitioners can still employ
Australian trained doctors or doctors not subject to s19AB.

Read about [more about section 19AB](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do/19ab).

## **Learn how we assess DWS areas**

We use a different method to calculate DWS classifications for specialists to
that for the DPA.

See all [2022 DWS for specialist locations](/resources/publications/dws-
classifications-for-specialists-2022 "DWS classifications for specialists
2022"). Details of the [2021 DWS for specialists
locations](/resources/publications/all-dws-for-specialists-
classifications-2021 "All DWS \(for specialists\) classifications – 2021").

## **How DWS differs from other classifications**

DWS shows the number of specialists compared to the population of an area.

The [DPA classification](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications/dpa) is for GPs. DPA is based on gender and age
demographics, and the socio-economic status of patients living in an area.

## **Find areas classified as DWS**

To find areas classified as DWS, search the [Health Workforce
Locator](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/health-workforce-
locator). You can search the locator by specialty.

Last updated:

21 July 2022

Tags:

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

  * [About Australia's rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce/about)
  * [How we support](/topics/rural-health-workforce/how-we-support)
  * [Stronger Rural Health Strategy](/topics/rural-health-workforce/stronger-rural-health-strategy)
  * [Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)
    * [Distribution Priority Areas (DPAs)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa)
    * [Request a review of a DPA classification](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa/request-review)
    * [District of Workforce Shortage](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws)
    * [Modified Monash Model (MMM)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/mmm)
    * [Area of Need (AoN)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/aon)
    * [ASGS Remoteness Areas](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgs-ra)
    * [ASGC Remoteness Area](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgc-ra)
    * [Rural, Remote and Metropolitan Areas](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/rrma)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/rural-health-workforce/programs)
  * [News](/topics/rural-health-workforce/rural-health-workforce-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/rural-health-workforce/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/rural-health-workforce/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

