Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  4. [Getting vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated)

[Getting vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated)

# Check immunisation history

Immunisation History Statements are available from the Australian Immunisation
Register (AIR).

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Check immunisation history&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/check-immunisation-history?language=und)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/check-immunisation-history?language=und)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Check immunisation history&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/check-immunisation-history?language=und)

Loading...

On this page

## What are Immunisation History Statements?

Immunisation History Statements are a listing of all your vaccinations
recorded on the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR). The AIR is a national
register that records vaccines given to people of all ages in Australia.

You can get a statement from the AIR.

You may need an Immunisation History Statement for child care and school
enrolment, or employment at certain workplaces. Centrelink uses them to
determine eligibility for some family assistance payments.

You can also check the statement to make sure your child’s vaccinations are up
to date.

## The Australian Immunisation Register (AIR)

The AIR is a national register that records vaccines given to people of all
ages in Australia. This includes:

  * all vaccines funded under the National Immunisation Program (NIP)
  * most school-based vaccines provided under State and Territory vaccination programs
  * most privately funded vaccines, including influenza and travel vaccines.

It’s up to your vaccination provider to record your vaccinations on the AIR.
It’s a good idea to remind them to do this.

Previously, the Victorian Cytology Service Foundation recorded human
papillomavirus (HPV) vaccinations separately. The AIR now records all
vaccinations. The Foundation transferred all past HPV vaccination records to
the AIR. All HPV records are now in one place.

If your immunisation provider reported your HPV vaccination to either
register, your statement will list it.

## AIR Immunisation History Statements

### For your child

You can get your child’s statement if they are under 14 years of age.

The quickest way to get your child’s statement is by using your [Medicare
online
account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-
online-accounts). Do this through the:

  * [myGov](https://my.gov.au/) website
  * [Express Plus Medicare mobile app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-plus-medicare-mobile-app).

You can save and email the statement directly to your child’s pre-school or
childcare centre.

You can also ask your general practitioner or vaccination provider to print a
copy for you.

You can also call the [AIR enquiries
line](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us/phone-
us#acir). It can take up to 10 business days to get your statement in the
post.

### For adults and teenagers

Due to privacy laws, anyone aged 14 years or older has to get their own
statement. They can do this:

  * Online, by setting up their own [myGov](https://my.gov.au/LoginServices/main/login?execution=e2s1) account and then accessing their [Medicare online account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-online-accounts)
  * through the [Express Plus Medicare mobile app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-plus-medicare-mobile-app)
  * by calling the [AIR enquiries line](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us/phone-us#acir). It can take up to 10 business days to get your statement in the post
  * by asking their doctor or immunisation provider to print a copy for them.

Young people aged 14 years or older can give Services Australia permission for
their parents to access their immunisation history statement.

### For doctors

Your general practitioner or other vaccination provider can access statements
on the AIR.

You can ask your doctor to print a copy of your statement or your child’s
statement for you.

## Updating your details

The AIR uses your details from your Medicare record.

Make sure the personal details you have recorded with Medicare are up to date.
You can update your Medicare details online using your [Medicare online
account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-
online-accounts). Do this through:

  * [myGov](https://my.gov.au/) website
  * [Express Plus Medicare mobile app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-plus-medicare-mobile-app).

If you are an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander person, you can choose to
record this in your Medicare details.

Last updated:

17 September 2021

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

  * [About immunisation](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation)
  * [When to get vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated)
  * [Vaccines](/topics/immunisation/vaccines)
  * [Getting vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated)
    * [Check immunisation history](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/check-immunisation-history)
    * [During the visit](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/during-the-visit)
    * [Possible side effects of vaccination](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/possible-side-effects-of-vaccination)
  * [For health professionals](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals)
  * [Immunisation data](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-data)
  * [News](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

