Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Enhancing team based primary care with nurse practitioners in WA

The Australian and Western Australian Governments are working together to make
it easier for people to receive high quality primary care from nurse
practitioners across the state.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Enhancing team based primary care with nurse practitioners in WA&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/enhancing-team-based-primary-care-with-nurse-practitioners-in-wa)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/enhancing-team-based-primary-care-with-nurse-practitioners-in-wa)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Enhancing team based primary care with nurse practitioners in WA&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/enhancing-team-based-primary-care-with-nurse-practitioners-in-wa)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

20 February 2023

Date published:

20 February 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The Australian and Western Australian Governments are working together to make
it easier for people to receive high quality primary care from nurse
practitioners across the state.

Through the Albanese Government’s $100 million commitment to pilot new ways to
improve primary care, WA will receive $11.7 million to encourage local
practices to offer more comprehensive, team-based services with nurse
practitioners.

This funding is part of the Australian Government’s commitment in the 2022-23
October Budget to work collaboratively with states and territories to co-
develop and pilot innovative primary care models that aim to improve care
pathways and reduce pressure on emergency departments.

The Nurse Practitioner and Team Based Care Pilot will fund 20 nurse
practitioners over two years, who will work both autonomously and in
collaboration with other health practitioners to diagnose and treat a wide
range of health conditions – and their services will be free to patients.

This pilot will improve patient access in underserviced and vulnerable
populations and help address health workforce shortages in WA.

Nurse practitioners engaged through the pilot will be based in primary care
services throughout WA. The precise locations will be subject to an EOI
process.

The program will work closely with primary care providers and nurse
practitioners to successfully design the new models of care, and provide
governance, change management, community education and clinical coaching
support. Evaluation of the program will inform future policy.

**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

“The Strengthening Medicare Taskforce report made it clear that we need to
utilise team-based care and our well-trained nurses to deliver quality primary
care.

“This pilot is a nation-leading opportunity to for nurse practitioners to work
to their full scope of practice leading to better health access for Western
Australians.

“This pilot will make it easier for Western Australians to receive health care
where and when they need it."

**Quotes attributable to Minister Sanderson:**

“We know access to primary care continues to be a problem in some areas,
including in regional and remote Western Australia, and this pilot will
supplement the GP workforce.

“The aim of this pilot is to provide greater access to coordinated long-term
care that addresses the needs of priority cohorts with chronic and complex
needs such as older Australians and people with a disability.

“If we can improve community access to preventative, multidisciplinary care we
will take the pressure off our hospital emergency departments and improve the
health of Western Australians.”

Tags:

  * [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

