Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  4. [About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about)

[About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-
and-digital-health/about)

# Telehealth

Telehealth allows you to consult a healthcare provider by phone or a video
call. Telehealth was expanded in March 2020 to ensure the safety of patients
and healthcare providers during the COVID-19 pandemic. Many of these services
have now been retained permanently.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Telehealth&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/telehealth)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/telehealth)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Telehealth&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/telehealth)

Loading...

On this page

## **About telehealth**

Telehealth involves you consulting your healthcare provider remotely when they
have determined a physical examination isn’t needed, and you can’t see them in
person.

Telehealth services can include:

  * diagnosis
  * treatment
  * prevention.

On 1 January 2022, expanded telehealth services became an [ongoing part of
Medicare](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Factsheet-
Telehealth-Arrangements-Jan22).

## **Why telehealth is important**

Telehealth has been transformational to Australia’s universal healthcare
program, Medicare. It has played a critical role in ensuring the continuity of
care for hundreds of thousands of Australian patients. Telehealth allows you
to get the health care you need, where and when you need it.

Often, Australians living in rural and remote areas need to travel long
distances to see their healthcare provider. Telehealth improves their health
care by improving access to timely services.

Telehealth consultations are not only convenient, they also ensure the safety
of others by [reducing the spread of illness](/news/announcements/how-to-
protect-yourself-and-the-people-you-are-caring-for-from-infection-with-
covid-19 "How to protect yourself and the people you are caring for from
infection with COVID–19"). This is important in circumstances where you need
to [self-isolate](/node/32805#isolating-if-you-have-covid19) or quarantine due
to COVID-19 public health orders.

Read more about [telehealth services during the COVID-19 pandemic](/health-
alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-
sector/providing-health-care-remotely-during-the-covid-19-pandemic "Providing
health care remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic").

## **Using telehealth services**

See the Australian Digital Health Agency for information and videos explaining
[how telehealth works](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/telehealth).

A range of healthcare providers can now provide telehealth services to
patients. These include:

  * general practitioners (GPs)
  * specialists and consultant physicians
  * allied health providers
  * mental health professionals
  * nurse practitioners.

When using telehealth services, you can have a consultation by phone (mobile
or landline phone) or a video call (mobile or computer).

You can consult a medical specialist, allied health professional, nurse,
midwife or nurse practitioner via telehealth instead of face-to-face if
appropriate.

### **GP telehealth consultations**

To be eligible for GP telehealth services, patients must have had a face-to-
face consultation with their GP (or another GP in the same practice) in the 12
months before the telehealth service. There are some limited exceptions.

If your doctor or medical centre doesn’t offer telehealth consultations, you
can use healthdirect to [find a
provider](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services).

## **Telehealth services during the COVID-19 pandemic**

Telehealth is an essential part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We
continue to adjust our [COVID-19 telehealth measures](/health-
alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-
sector/providing-health-care-remotely-during-the-covid-19-pandemic "Providing
health care remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic") as needed.

## **Ongoing MBS-funded telehealth services**

[Ongoing MBS telehealth
services](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Factsheet-
Telehealth-Arrangements-Jan22) are available nationally. If you have a
Medicare card, you may be eligible for telehealth services.

## **Resources**

[ ![Medicare telehealth services – Consumer information cover
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2021/12/medicare-
telehealth-services-consumer-information.png?itok=S4o6qKtG)
](/resources/publications/medicare-telehealth-services-consumer-information)

###  [Medicare telehealth services – Consumer information
](/resources/publications/medicare-telehealth-services-consumer-
information?language=en)

The Australian Government has worked with experts to design telehealth
services that will continue from 1 January 2022. Many of the telehealth
services that have benefited patients since March 2020 continue in their
current form.

[ ![Ongoing telehealth – Strengthening primary care cover
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2021/12/ongoing-
telehealth-strengthening-primary-care.png?itok=Nart0fJt)
](/resources/publications/ongoing-telehealth-strengthening-primary-care)

###  [Ongoing telehealth – Strengthening primary care
](/resources/publications/ongoing-telehealth-strengthening-primary-
care?language=en)

From 1 January 2022, telehealth services introduced in response to COVID-19
will be ongoing. Eligible patients all around Australia will continue to have
access to GP, nursing, midwifery and allied health services via telehealth
where the health professional deems it clinically appropriate.

[ ![Changes to MBS specialist telehealth from 1 January 2022 cover
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2021/12/changes-
to-mbs-specialist-telehealth-from-1-january-2022.png?itok=2chuBZI2)
](/resources/publications/changes-to-mbs-specialist-telehealth-
from-1-january-2022)

###  [Changes to MBS specialist telehealth from 1 January 2022
](/resources/publications/changes-to-mbs-specialist-telehealth-
from-1-january-2022?language=en)

From 1 January 2022, patient access to specialist telehealth services will be
supported by ongoing MBS arrangements.

Last updated:

13 April 2022

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health)

  * [About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about)
    * [Healthcare identifiers](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/healthcare-identifiers)
    * [Electronic health records](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-health-records)
    * [Electronic prescriptions](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [Telehealth](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/telehealth)
  * [What we do](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/what-we-do)
  * [Health technology assessments (HTAs)](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments)
  * [News](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

