Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Non-vocationally Registered Fellowship Support Program (Non-VR FSP)

The Non-VR FSP supports doctors to gain their fellowship. This increases
access to high-quality primary health care and enables doctors to register as
specialist general practitioner and access higher Medicare rebates.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Non-vocationally Registered Fellowship Support Program \(Non-VR FSP\)&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/non-VR-FSP)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/non-VR-FSP)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Non-vocationally Registered Fellowship Support Program \(Non-VR FSP\)&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/non-VR-FSP)

Loading...

On this page

## **About the program**

The Non-VR FSP provides financial support to [non-vocationally recognised
doctors](/node/27995#medicare-access-for-doctors-and-specialists) to help them
gain fellowship with either the:

  * [Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine (ACRRM)](https://www.acrrm.org.au/)
  * [Royal Australian College of General Practitioners (RACGP)](https://www.racgp.org.au/).

Participants can train through the:

  * [Practice Experience Program](http://www.racgp.org.au/education/imgs/fellowship-pathways/practice-experience-program) (RACGP)
  * [Independent Pathway](http://www.acrrm.org.au/training-towards-fellowship/overview-of-fellowship-training/training-pathways/acrrm-independent-pathway) (ACRRM)

The Non-VR FSP ends on 30 June 2023.

## **Goals of the program**

The program helps increase access to high-quality primary health care for all
Australians.

## **Why it is important**

To be able to access the highest-value Medicare rebates, doctors must be
registered with the Medical Board of Australia, and either:  

  * have a fellowship with the ACRRM or RACGP
  * be working towards fellowship under an approved placement on a college-led training program.

By helping doctors work towards attaining fellowship, the program ensures they
can access higher Medicare rebates while providing high-quality care.

Read more about [Medicare rebates and vocational
recognition](/node/27995#medicare-access-for-doctors-and-specialists).

## **Apply**

Each program has its own eligibility and entrance requirements. To apply,
contact either the:

  * [ACRRM](https://www.acrrm.org.au/support/grants/non-vocational-support-program)
  * [RACGP](https://www.racgp.org.au/education/imgs/fellowship-pathways/fellowship-programs-for-imgs/practice-experience-program).

## **Related information**

[ ![Cover image for General Practice Fellowship Program Placement
Guideline](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2022/10/general-
practice-fellowship-program-placement-guidelines-fourth-
edition.png?itok=uLNsKhiz) ](/resources/publications/general-practice-
fellowship-program-placement-guidelines-fourth-edition)

###  [General Practice Fellowship Program Placement Guidelines (fourth
edition) ](/resources/publications/general-practice-fellowship-program-
placement-guidelines-fourth-edition?language=en)

These guidelines provide the overarching strategic policy objectives and
operational direction for the Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine
(ACRRM) Fellowship Program and Royal Australian College of General
Practitioners (RACGP) Fellowship Program.

Last updated:

23 November 2021

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

