Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)
  3. [Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

[Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

# A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan –
December 2022

A newsletter from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan with
updates from the nursing and midwifery sector, some personal priorities and
highlights, and an insight on what's happening across the Department of Health
and Aged Care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan – December 2022&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-officer-alison-mcmillan-december-2022)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-officer-alison-mcmillan-december-2022)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan – December 2022&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-officer-alison-mcmillan-december-2022)

Loading...

Date published:

16 December 2022

Audience:

Health sector

On this page

Hello and welcome to my new and improved newsletter. Each month I will share
updates from the nursing and midwifery sector, some personal priorities and
highlights and give you insight on what's happening across the Department of
Health and Aged Care. I would also like to hear about what you would like to
see in my newsletter, so I will be including polls in future editions. I wish
everyone a wonderful December and festive season, and I look forward to
connecting with you in the new year.

For more updates from the Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer, follow Alison
on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/professor-alison-mcmillan-
psm-201a4a50/).

## Value of registered nurses in aged care recognised

Registered nurses provide excellence in clinical leadership across aged care
and play a critical role in delivering safe and high quality care to older
Australians.

### 24/7 registered nurses and care minutes requirements

The Australian Government is committed to ensuring better access to clinical
care for residents in aged care homes. Funding of $2.5 billion in the 2022-23
October Budget will support aged care homes to deliver more care minutes to
residents and have a [registered nurse onsite
24/7](https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/aged-care-247-registered-nurse-
requirement).

From 1 October 2023, residential aged care homes will be required to deliver
an average of 200 care minutes per resident per day, including 40 minutes with
a registered nurse. From 1 October 2024, this requirement will increase to an
average of 215 care minutes per resident per day, including 44 minutes with a
registered nurse. Care minutes are the direct care time delivered to residents
by registered nurses, enrolled nurses and personal care workers.

Find out more about the 24/7 registered nurse and care minutes requirements,
including the activities residential aged care homes can report as care
minutes, in the [Care minutes and 24/7 nursing requirements
guide](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/care-minutes-
and-247-nursing-requirements-guide).

**Aged Care Registered Nurses’ Payment**  
Applications are now open for the Aged Care Registered Nurses’ Payment. Aged
care providers can apply on behalf of their eligible staff through [Grant
Connect](https://www.grants.gov.au/) until 14 December 2022.

This payment is available to registered nurses working in residential aged
care, in-home care and Commonwealth Home Support Programme settings.  
Registered nurses must have worked with the same aged care provider over the
eligibility period. The periods for the first round of payments are:

  * 1 November 2021 – 31 October 2022
  * 1 May 2022 – 31 October 2022.

Up to $6,000 is available for full-time registered nurses with payments also
available on a pro-rata basis for eligible part-time nurses.

The payment also further recognises and rewards nurses who work in rural towns
and communities, and in remote and very remote communities. Nurses who
complete formal post-graduate qualifications or take on additional
responsibilities such as management, training and Infection Prevention and
Control are also recognised.

The payment is one of the Government’s initiatives to build and support
registered nurses in aged care. Through the aged care reforms, the Government
is boosting the skills of nurses and other aged care workers through training
programs, scholarships, mentoring of new nurses and supporting clinical
placements.

More information on the [Aged Care Registered Nurses’
Payment](https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/aged-care-registered-nurses-
payment-to-reward-clinical-skills-and-leadership?language=en) is on the
Department of Health and Aged Care website.

## Strengthening Medicare Taskforce

The Minister for Health and Aged Care, the Hon Mark Butler MP, established the
Strengthening Medicare Taskforce (Taskforce) to provide recommendations on the
highest priority investments in primary care by the end of 2022, supported by
the $750 million Strengthening Medicare Fund.  
  
Nursing is well represented on the Taskforce, with the Minister appointing the
Federal Secretary of the Australian Nursing and Midwifery Federation, Ms Annie
Butler and the President of the Australian Primary Health Care Nurses
Association, Ms Karen Booth. I was also appointed by the Minister as a
permanent observer on the Taskforce.  
  
The Taskforce met on 4 November 2022 to consider ways to encourage and
facilitate multidisciplinary care, including how we can harness the full
skills of nurses, pharmacists and allied health professionals.  
  
On 25 November 2022, the Taskforce met and discussed the sustainability of
primary care business models, ensuring that they are fit-for-purpose to
respond to today’s health needs, particularly for older Australians, people
with complex and chronic conditions and those who live in rural/regional
Australia and other contexts.  
  
In December 2022, the Taskforce will meet to finalise recommendations to
Government on the highest priorities to strengthen Medicare. The Taskforce
will provide their recommendations to government at the end of the year. The
government will respond to these recommendations through the 2023-24 Budget
process.

Details of the Taskforce including communiques can be found on the
[website](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/strengthening-
medicare-taskforce).

## Investment in a National Nurse and Midwife Health Service

The Australian Government will invest $25.2 million to establish and deliver a
National Nurse and Midwife Health Service (NNMHS). It will provide free
counselling and health support for nurses, midwives and nursing and midwifery
students. As announced in the October 2022-23 Federal Budget, funding will be
provided to the Australian Nursing and Midwifery Federation (ANMF) to deliver
the Service.

The NNMHS will provide a welcoming, soft entry point for nurses, midwives and
students with a range of health concerns. The services will be delivered by
clinicians including registered nurses, enrolled nurses, nurse practitioners
and midwives. The clinicians will provide a tailored, case managed service and
will assist with specialist referrals where required.  
The NNMHS will be modelled on Nursing and Midwifery Health Program Victoria
(NMHPV), a not-for-profit service supporting nurses in Victoria since 2006.
The Service will operate through four central hub locations, including
Victoria-Tasmania, New South Wales-Australian Capital Territory, South
Australia-Western Australia and Queensland-Northern Territory, as well as
additional regional offices. Clinicians will be available to provide telephone
consultations, making support more accessible to those in rural, regional and
remote locations.

Work will commence shortly on the national roll out framework, led by the ANMF
in consultation with the Australian and state and territory governments, key
service providers and nursing peaks.

Ged Kearney MP visiting the Victoria Nursing and Midwifery Health Program.

![Ged Kearney MP visiting the Victoria Nursing and Midwifery Health
Program](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-12/ged_kearney_mp_visiting_the_victoria_nursing_and_midwifery_health_program.png?itok=vwz84NVn)

## Have your say on the draft Australian Cancer Plan

Cancer Australia is inviting your feedback on the public consultation for the
Australian Cancer Plan (ACP), which sets a 10-year plan to provide lasting
change and improve outcomes for all people affected by cancer.

The consultation on the draft ACP presents the opportunity for all Australians
to comment on a ground-breaking national cancer strategy that sets out and
addresses priority areas, objectives and actions in cancer control. To make a
difference we need coordinated system-wide engagement.

Cancer Australia invites all Australians to share feedback on the draft
Australian Cancer Plan. To provide your feedback, visit
[engage.australiancancerplan.gov.au](https://engage.australiancancerplan.gov.au/)

Public consultation will close on 16 December 2022

## National guiding principles to improve the quality and safety of medication
management

The Department of Health and Aged Care, in collaboration with the Australian
Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care, has updated and published the
[national guiding principles to improve the quality and safety of medication
management](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp/media/updated-guiding-principles-to-improve-medication-management). These
2022 Guiding Principles publications are tailored for different settings:

  * [Guiding Principles for Medication Management in Residential Aged Care Facilities ](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/guiding-principles-for-medication-management-in-residential-aged-care-facilities-collection)
  * [Guiding Principles for Medication Management in the Community ](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/guiding-principles-for-medication-management-in-the-community-collection)
  * [Guiding Principles to Achieve Continuity in Medication Management ](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/guiding-principles-to-achieve-continuity-in-medication-management-collection)

_Note: This is targeted for transition points in care, when patients move
between different parts of the health and care system, such as when they leave
hospital._

The 2022 Guiding Principles publications promote best practice, and the
application of these principles must consider relevant national, state and
territory legislative requirements, profession-specific
licensing/registration, codes of practice, guidelines and standards, and aged
care quality and accreditation standards and requirements.

The 2022 Guiding Principles publications and the associated glossary and fact
sheets are intended for use by all Quality Use of Medicines partners,
including government, healthcare professionals (including nurses) and
providers, the individual, their carer and/or family, and others. Recognising
the increasing and unique role that nurses play in the delivery of health care
across a range of settings (including RACFs), there is tailored guidance for
nurses in these documents. This best-practice guidance will assist nurses to
improve medication management, whether prescribing, administering or
monitoring medicines in patients.

The 2022 Guiding Principles publications build on their previous editions and
are underpinned by Australia’s [National Medicines
Policy](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-medicines-
policy), which is currently being reviewed.

The Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care led the review
of the existing Guiding Principles, collaborating closely with the Aged Care
Quality and Safety Commission. Public consultation included more than 80 peak
organisations and experts involved in medication management, individuals
receiving care, and healthcare professionals, including registered nurses,
doctors and pharmacists.

The 2022 Guiding Principles publications have been published on the
Department’s website, and can be found on the [National Medicines Policy
Resources
Collection](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/national-
medicines-policy-resources-collection) page.

## New online User Guide for Reviewing Clinical Variation

The Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care [User Guide for
Reviewing Clinical Variation](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-
work/healthcare-variation/user-guide-reviewing-clinical-variation) is now
available in a new interactive online format, making it easier for health
services to use data to support appropriate care and access practical case
studies.

Regular reviews of clinical variation data to investigate and reduce
unwarranted variation are a requirement of the [Clinical Governance
Standard](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/standards/nsqhs-
standards/clinical-governance/clinical-governance-standard) in the National
Safety and Quality in Health Services Standards.

To implement [Action
1.28](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/standards/nsqhs-standards/clinical-
governance-standard/clinical-performance-and-effectiveness/action-128), a
health service organisation needs to collect data on its own clinical care
processes or outcomes, and compare its performance to other services and/or
evidence-based guidelines or clinical care standards.

The User Guide can support clinicians to use a clinical variation approach to
align health care with patients’ needs and prevent harm, as well as focus on
the most effective care and reduce unnecessary treatment.

**Six-step approach to reviewing clinical variation**  
The User Guide presents a six-step approach to using clinical variation data
to improve care. This format makes is easier to find the information you need.
The steps are:

  1. Select priority areas for exploring variation
  2. Plan the project
  3. Measure and review your data
  4. Explore reasons for variation
  5. Act to improve care
  6. Monitor and report on impact of improvement activities.

**Case studies put steps into action**  
Practical [case studies](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-
work/healthcare-variation/user-guide-reviewing-clinical-variation/case-
studies) showcase best practice and innovation in the review of clinical
variation, across healthcare settings. They include topics ranging from hip
fracture surgery, stroke, cardiac events and colonoscopy, as well as new case
studies on perineal trauma in childbirth, reducing preterm and planned early
term births and improving end-of-life care.

If you have a case study suggestion or would like more information, please
email [Atlas@safetyandquality.gov.au](mailto:Atlas@safetyandquality.gov.au)

## Free Equip Aged Care Learning Packages

Free online learning modules to support aged care workers are now available
through the University of Tasmania’s Wicking Dementia Research and Education
Centre.

Funded by the Department of Health and Aged Care, the Equip Aged Care Learning
Packages cover 14 contemporary topics in aged care. The modules are designed
for direct care workers (including nurses), volunteers, caregivers and anyone
with an interest in improving care for older people.

The first 6 learning modules are available now, and provide an overview of
the:

  * Australian aged care system
  * role of nurses, personal care workers and allied health professionals working in aged care
  * Aged Care Quality Standards
  * Palliative and End-of-life Care
  * Person-centred care
  * Supporting people living with dementia.

The rest of the modules will be rolled out progressively, with all modules
anticipated to be available by March 2023.

Register and enrol for these modules at [Equip Aged Care Learning
(utas.edu.au)](https://equiplearning.mooc.utas.edu.au/).

For further enquiries, email
[equip.learning@utas.edu.au](mailto:equip.learning@utas.edu.au)

## National Strategy for the Elimination of Cervical Cancer

We have been working closely with the Australian Centre for the Prevention of
Cervical Cancer on the development of a _National Strategy to Eliminate
Cervical Cancer (Strategy)._ As many of you are aware, with our world class
vaccination and screening programs, Australia is on its way to eliminating
cervical cancer as a public health problem. However, there is still much work
to be done in order to achieve equity across priority populations and
especially within Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities where
incidence and mortality rates are much higher. Many of you may have
contributed to the initial consultation so I am pleased to say that the draft
Strategy has now opened for public consultation and you can have your say by
clicking [here](https://acpcc.org.au/elimination/get-involved/).

## Have your say to inform the National Dementia Action Plan.

The 10-year plan is a joint initiative between the Australian Government, and
state and territory governments.

The National Dementia Action Plan will provide a vision where Australians
understand dementia – people living with dementia and their carers have the
best quality of life possible and no one walks the dementia journey alone. It
will mean better coordinated approaches to dementia risk reduction, early
diagnosis and improvements in services for people living with dementia and
their carers.

We want to ensure that the voices of people with lived experience of dementia
and those involved in their care are reflected in Australia’s priorities for
action on dementia over the next 10 years, including:

  * people who work in primary care, health, acute or aged care
  * people living with dementia
  * their carers, families and friends
  * researchers and academics.

Your views will help us take action,

Visit [consultations.health.gov.au](https://consultations.health.gov.au/aged-
care-division/ndap-public-consultation/)  
Email [dementiaplan@health.gov.au](mailto:dementiaplan@health.gov.au)  
Call 1800 565 789 to provide feedback over the phone or request a hard copy

Public consultation will close on **31 January 2023**.

## 2023 specialties for the Graduate Certificate in Clinical Nursing offered
via ACU Online in 2023.

ACU Online courses are designed for online learning, delivered via a purpose-
built, innovative learning management system by academic staff trained in
online teaching. Course content is presented in manageable 8-week terms with a
range of interactive resources to guide students through each unit.

For further details on ACUO offerings, please see
[ACUOnline](https://online.acu.edu.au/).

## Support services for healthcare workers.

The Black Dog Institute’s The Essential Network (TEN) provides a blended care
mental health support service for healthcare workers that offers specialist,
individualised mental health advice. To find out out more about this service
visit their [website](https://www.blackdoginstitute.org.au/the-essential-
network/).  
  
The Department of Health and Aged Care has funded initiatives to embed mental
health skills in the broader health workforce. Resources such as the Mental
Health Professional's Network (MHPN) supports the health workforce through
delivery of professional multidisciplinary and intra-professional networks and
online development programs and webinars for health and mental health
practitioners – such as mental health nurses and special interest groups – who
support people with or at risk of mental illness. Visit the MHPN
[website](https://www.mhpn.org.au/) for more information.  
  
Nurses and midwives can also access digital mental health services available
to the broader community by visiting
[headtohealth.gov.au](https://www.headtohealth.gov.au/#_blank). These services
are free or low cost, and cover a range of counselling, treatment and crisis
support services.

## November highlights

![Australian Health Protection Principal Committee \(AHPPC\) Brisbane dinner
attendees](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-12/picture3.png?itok=dW6GA9xP)

I recently had the pleasure of attending a dinner in honour of the Australian
Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC) in Brisbane. The AHPPC is the
key decision-making committee for health emergencies, and is made up of state
and territory Chief Health Officers. The committee has been front and centre
in the pandemic response since 2020. Thank you to Her Excellency Dr Jeannette
Young and Professor Graeme Nimmo for hosting a wonderful evening.

![Nurses from the Department of Health and Aged Care at the Australian College
of Nursing’s 10 Year Anniversary Gala Dinner. From left to right: Helen
Masotti, Shefu Singh, Mahalia Stanley, Helen Frazer, Carole Davis, Prof Alison
McMillan, Prof Brendan Murphy, Frances Rice, Karen Cook, Kate Lehmensich,
Brody
Bamford.](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-12/picture4.jpg?itok=se_3jalN)

I was joined by nurses from the Department of Health and Aged Care at the
Australian College of Nursing’s 10 Year Anniversary Gala Dinner. From left to
right: Helen Masotti, Shefu Singh, Mahalia Stanley, Helen Frazer, Carole
Davis, Prof Alison McMillan, Prof Brendan Murphy, Frances Rice, Karen Cook,
Kate Lehmensich, Brody Bamford.

![Senior Midwifery Advisor, Kellie Wilton recently travelled to PNG as part of
a joint midwifery leadership capacity building project supported by the
Australian College of Midwives \(ACM\), the PNG Midwifery Society \(PNGMS\)
and the Rotary Club of
Morialta.](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-12/picture5.png?itok=zmnCRs9M)

Senior Midwifery Advisor, Kellie Wilton recently travelled to PNG as part of a
joint midwifery leadership capacity building project supported by the
Australian College of Midwives (ACM), the PNG Midwifery Society (PNGMS) and
the Rotary Club of Morialta.

For more updates from the Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer, follow Alison
on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/professor-alison-mcmillan-
psm-201a4a50/).

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

