Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)

[Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health)

# Primary care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people

Access to culturally appropriate primary care provides for better health
outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. We fund health
providers to deliver comprehensive, culturally appropriate primary health care
services for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Primary care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Primary care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)

Loading...

On this page

## About primary care

Primary care includes non-hospital health services provided by:

  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health workers
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health practitioners
  * local doctors (general practitioners)
  * community nurses
  * allied health professionals (for example, physiotherapists and speech therapists)
  * midwives
  * pharmacists
  * dentists.

## Primary care support

The [Indigenous Australians’ Health Programme](/our-work/indigenous-
australians-health-programme "Indigenous Australians' Health Programme ")
(IAHP) provides Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people with better
access to high-quality, culturally appropriate primary health care services.
The program aims to improve health and wellbeing, and prevent hospital
admissions where possible.

As part of the program, the [Primary Health Care Activity](/our-work/primary-
health-care-activity "Primary Health Care Activity") provides
[grants](https://www.grants.gov.au/Search/GoAdvancedSearch?Page=1&ItemsPerPage=0&Type=Go&GoType=published&AgencyUuid=624f7802-bbdf-d68e-1767-e0cd72a1dd01&AgencyStatus=2&KeywordTypeSearch=AllWord&Category=251&OrderBy=Close%20Date%20%26%20Time%20-%20Ascending)
for these services. This includes services delivered by Aboriginal Community
Controlled Health Services (ACCHSs), as well as mainstream services across the
health system.

We fund [Primary Health
Networks](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/PHN-
Home) across Australia to improve access to coordinated care. Improving
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health is one of their key priorities.

We fund an [Indigenous health
incentive](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program/what-are-
individual-incentives/indigenous-health-incentive) payment for GP practices to
help them provide better health care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
patients who have, or are at risk of developing, a chronic disease.

## Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services

Most of our funding for Indigenous primary health care is provided to over 140
[ACCHSs](https://www.naccho.org.au/) through the IAHP. These services can
attract and retain Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander clients better than
mainstream services.

We also provide these services with [access to Medicare
billing](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-
care/medicare-and-medicines "Access to Medicare and pharmaceutical benefits
for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people").

![Logo for Australian Indigenous
HealthInfoNet](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/map-
of-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health-and-medical-
services.png?itok=w9q_Okcg)

###  [Map of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health and medical services
](/resources/apps-and-tools/map-of-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-
health-and-medical-services?language=en)

Use this interactive map to find an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander
Health Service near you.

## Primary care programs

We fund a number of [initiatives and programs](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health/initiatives-and-programs "Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander health initiatives and programs") that support primary health care
for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

### **Annual health checks**

Medicare provides a free [annual health check](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks "Annual health checks
for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people") for Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people every 9 to 12 months.

### Ear and eye health support

We fund initiatives to help prevent and treat [ear disease and hearing
loss](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-
health-and-hearing-support "Ear and hearing health for Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people") and [eye disease](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support "Eye and vision health
for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people") in Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people.

### Lifestyle and family health

We support healthy living initiatives – for eating healthy, being active and
avoiding risky behaviours – to help people stay healthy throughout their
lives. This includes support for mothers and babies during and after
pregnancy.

Read more about [lifestyle and family health support for Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-
health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support "Lifestyle and family health
support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people").

### Mental health and suicide prevention

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people are a priority population for
mental health support and suicide prevention.

Read more about [mental health and suicide prevention support for Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander people](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-
islander-health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support "Lifestyle and family
health support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people").

### Placements for health workers

We fund the [Remote Area Health Corps](https://www.rahc.com.au/) (RAHC) to
give health professionals opportunities to do short-term paid placements (3 to
12 weeks) in remote Indigenous communities in the Northern Territory. We
designed this program to increase the number of health professionals available
for work in Indigenous communities.

### Chronic diseases

We also fund programs for [chronic disease](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support "Chronic disease support for
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people") support and [access to
medications](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-
care/medicare-and-medicines "Access to Medicare and pharmaceutical benefits
for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people").

### Communicable diseases

Some diseases (such as flu, hepatitis and measles) can be prevented by
vaccination. Australian governments provide free vaccinations through the
[National Immunisation Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/national-immunisation-program) (NIP) to all eligible Australians.

Some vaccines have [different
recommendations](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/immunisation/immunisation-throughout-life/immunisation-for-aboriginal-
and-torres-strait-islander-people) for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people. [Children can get extra vaccines for
free](https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/resources/publications/vaccination-
for-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-children) through the National
Immunisation Program.

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people experience a greater burden of
disease related to blood-borne viruses. Our [national
strategy](/resources/publications/national-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-
islander-blood-borne-viruses-and-sexually-transmissible-infections-
strategy-2018-2022 "National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Blood Borne
Viruses and Sexually Transmissible Infections Strategy 2018–2022 ") addresses
the unique needs of these communities.

## Funding model

The IAHP funding model ensures a fair and transparent distribution of primary
health care funding. This helps to deliver better health outcomes for
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

Under this model, we provide ACCHSs with 3-year funding agreements. This
provides longer-term certainty, and helps them plan for the services they
provide and the staffing they need.

We determine funding amounts from:

  * activity – how many clients the service sees and how many episodes of care they provide each year
  * cost of service delivery – based on the location of the service
  * health need – based on the impact of the [social determinants of health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/status-and-determinants "Status and determinants of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health") affecting the level of sickness and disadvantage in communities.

For more information about the funding model, read our technical fact sheets
about:

  * [calculation steps](/resources/publications/indigenous-australians-health-programme-primary-health-care-funding-model-overview-and-calculation-steps "Indigenous Australians’ Health Programme primary health care funding model – overview and calculation steps ")
  * [health care need](/resources/publications/indigenous-australians-health-programme-primary-health-care-funding-model-health-care-need "Indigenous Australians’ Health Programme primary health care funding model – health care need ")
  * [location](/resources/publications/indigenous-australians-health-programme-primary-health-care-funding-model-location "Indigenous Australians’ Health Programme primary health care funding model – location ")
  * [finding the correct multiplier for location and need](/resources/publications/indigenous-australians-health-programme-primary-health-care-funding-model-location-and-need-how-to-find-the-correct-multiplier "Indigenous Australians’ Health Programme primary health care funding model – location and need: how to find the correct multiplier ").

See the [media release](https://ministers.pmc.gov.au/wyatt/2022/strengthening-
aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-community-controlled-health-services)
for details of changes to the future operation of the funding model.

### **Evaluating our support for primary care** ****

We regularly [evaluate our Indigenous primary care health
programs](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-
care/evaluations "Evaluating our Indigenous health programs") to check whether
they are meeting their goals.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Indigenous primary health care policy contact ](/contacts/indigenous-
primary-health-care-policy-contact?language=en)

Contact us with queries related to Health's Indigenous primary health care
policies and programs.

[IHDPreventiveHealth@Health.gov.au](mailto:IHDPreventiveHealth@Health.gov.au)

Last updated:

1 March 2022

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Indigenous Australians' Health Programme ](/our-work/indigenous-australians-health-programme)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-
torres-strait-islander-health)

  * [Status and determinants of health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/status-and-determinants)
  * [How we support health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/how-we-support-health)
  * [Who we work with](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/who-we-work-with-to-support-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)
    * [Annual health checks](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks)
    * [Ear health and hearing support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-health-and-hearing-support)
    * [Eye health and vision support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)
    * [Chronic disease support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support)
    * [Medicare and medicines](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/medicare-and-medicines)
    * [Evaluations](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/evaluations)
  * [Lifestyle and family health support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support)
  * [Aged care support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/aged-care-support)
  * [Reporting](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)
  * [Research](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/research)
  * [News](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

