Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [Accessing Medicare for health practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  5. [Medicare access for doctors and specialists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists)

[Doctors and specialists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-
industry/doctors-and-specialists)

# Section 19AB restricted doctors and access to Medicare

Overseas trained doctors and foreign graduates of an accredited medical school
can access Medicare benefits if they work in certain locations and meet
eligibility requirements under section 19AB of the Health Insurance Act 1973.
Find out about these requirements.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Section 19AB restricted doctors and access to Medicare&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19ab)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19ab)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Section 19AB restricted doctors and access to Medicare&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19ab)

Loading...

On this page

## Peak period processing timeframes

November to March is our peak processing period. During this time the
department and Services Australia have longer than usual processing
timeframes. You should allow a minimum of 6 weeks for your application to be
processed and a Medicare provider number issued.

We process all Medicare provider number, section 19AB, and approved program
placement applications in strict order of receipt to ensure procedural
fairness to all applicants. We do not provide status updates. Both departments
are working hard to process all applications as soon as practicable, and
appreciate your patience. See [Services Australia's current processing
times](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/medicare-benefits-health-professionals/apply-
provider-number-or-prescriber-number/processing-times-applications).

## **About the location restrictions**

To access
[Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/medicare-benefits-health-professionals/apply-
provider-number-or-prescriber-number/) benefits when working in Australia,
overseas trained doctors and foreign graduates of an accredited medical school
must work in areas that most need them. This helps make sure people have
access to the health care they need, regardless of where they live.

This means that from the time you get your medical registration in Australia,
you must work for at least 10 years in a:

  * [Distribution Priority Area (DPA)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa "Distribution Priority Area") if you're a general practitioner (GP)
  * [District of Workforce Shortage (DWS)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws "District of Workforce Shortage") if you're a non-GP specialist.

This requirement, under section 19AB of the [Health Insurance Act
1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2004A00101), is called the
’10-year moratorium’. You can use scaling to reduce the time you work in a
DPA/DWS. Read about the [10-year moratorium and scaling](/topics/doctors-and-
specialists/what-we-do/19ab/moratorium "10-year moratorium and scaling").

There is no restriction if you work in a salaried position that doesn’t
attract Medicare benefits, like in a public hospital.

DoctorConnect provides detailed information about [working as a doctor in
Australia](/our-work/doctorconnect "DoctorConnect").

## **Who the restrictions apply to**

The restrictions that prevent a doctor from receiving a Medicare provider
number apply to you if you:

  * got your medical degree outside of Australia or New Zealand (overseas trained doctor)
  * enrolled in a medical degree in Australia or New Zealand as a temporary resident (foreign graduates of an accredited medical school).

## **Exemptions**

You can get an exemption that allows you to access Medicare benefits before
the end of your 10-year moratorium.

The best way to get an indefinite exemption is to work in a DPA or DWS
location. Exemptions to work outside of a DPA or DWS locations are limited.

Read about the [different types of exemptions available](/topics/doctors-and-
specialists/what-we-do/19ab/exemptions "Section 19AB exemptions "), depending
on your circumstances.

## **Apply for an exemption**

Before applying for an exemption, read more about requirements, including who
is eligible and what evidence to submit.

For all exemptions except the spousal and discretionary exemptions, you can
apply by including your supporting documentation when you submit your
[Medicare provider
number](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/medicare-benefits-health-professionals/apply-
provider-number-or-prescriber-number/) application. Services Australia will
then apply to us on your behalf.

We will assess your exemption application within 28 working days of receiving
it. We process applications in the order in which we receive them, and do not
provide a status report.

Services Australia will let you know whether your application has been
successful.

### **Spousal and discretionary exemptions**

For the spousal and discretionary exemptions, we do an initial assessment
before you can apply for a [Medicare provider
number](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/medicare-benefits-health-professionals/apply-
provider-number-or-prescriber-number/).

To apply:

  * for the spousal exemption, complete and submit [our application form](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/spousal-exemption-information-and-application-form)
  * for the discretionary exemption, send us details of your circumstances, as [outlined in our fact sheet](/resources/publications/19ab-restricted-doctors-access-to-medicare-provider-numbers "19AB restricted doctors – Access to Medicare provider numbers").

### **No backdating**

You must hold a valid Medicare provider number and 19AB exemption before you
can provide medical services that attract a Medicare rebate. If you do not
have a provider number, you will gather a debt for the services you provide.
Under the legislation, we cannot backdate exemptions.

## **Decision reconsiderations**

If an exemption application is declined, you have 90 days from the decision
date to contact us to request a review.

Include in your email:

  * the reasons you think our decision was incorrect
  * any new information or documents that might further demonstrate your eligibility.

Please don’t resubmit the same information as your original application, as
this is unlikely to result in a different decision.

If we decline your application again and you disagree, you can seek a review
by the [Administrative Appeals Tribunal](https://www.aat.gov.au/).

## **Becoming a permanent resident**

If you become a permanent resident, you must tell Medicare immediately to
avoid gathering a debt, as your current exemption may no longer be valid.

### **With fellowship qualifications or already on a 3GA program**

If you already have a fellowship qualification, or are on a [3GA
program](/node/7010#workforce-and-training-programs-for-those-without-
fellowship), when you become a permanent resident, the terms of your existing
exemption remain in place.

### **Without fellowship qualifications and not on a 3GA program**

If you don’t have a fellowship qualification when you become a permanent
resident, to continue accessing Medicare benefits, you:

  * must join a [3GA program under section 19AA](/node/7010#workforce-and-training-programs-for-those-without-fellowship)
  * will need a new exemption under section 19AB – the organisation that manages your 3GA program will assist in organising this for you.

## **Related information**

For more information read our [overview information sheet about
exemptions](/resources/publications/19ab-restricted-doctors-access-to-
medicare-provider-numbers "19AB restricted doctors – Access to Medicare
provider numbers").

## **Contact**

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Section 19AB contact  ](/contacts/section-19ab-contact?language=en)

Contact us for information about the section 19AB requirements for
international medical graduates who work in Australia.

[19AB@health.gov.au](mailto:19AB@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

16 September 2022

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Medical and health students and trainees](/topics/medical-students)
  * [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
    * [Allied health professionals](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/allied-health-professionals)
    * [Dentists and dental practitioners](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/dentist-and-dental-practitioners)
    * [Doctors and specialists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists)
      * [Section 19AA fellowship requirements](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19aa)
      * [Section 19AB restricted doctors](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19ab)
        * [10-year moratorium and scaling](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do/19ab/moratorium)
        * [Section 19AB exemptions](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do/19ab/exemptions)
    * [Nurse practitioners](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/nurse-practitioners)
    * [Optometrists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/optometrists)
    * [Participating midwives](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/participating-midwives)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

