Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

This content relates to a former minister

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)

[Ministers](/ministers)

# Minister Gillespie's interview with Natarsha Belling, on Triple M -
Australia Today, on regional health.

Read the transcript of Minister Gillespie's interview with Natarsha Belling,
on Triple M - Australia Today, on regional health.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Minister Gillespie's interview with Natarsha Belling, on Triple M - Australia Today, on regional health.&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-dr-david-gillespie-mp/media/minister-gillespies-interview-with-natarsha-belling-on-triple-m-australia-today-on-regional-health)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-dr-david-gillespie-mp/media/minister-gillespies-interview-with-natarsha-belling-on-triple-m-australia-today-on-regional-health)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Minister Gillespie's interview with Natarsha Belling, on Triple M - Australia Today, on regional health.&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-dr-david-gillespie-mp/media/minister-gillespies-interview-with-natarsha-belling-on-triple-m-australia-today-on-regional-health)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-dr-david-gillespie-
mp_2.png?itok=UZU45B9c)

**The Hon Dr David Gillespie MP**  
Former Minister for Regional Health

Media event date:

5 April 2022

Date published:

5 April 2022

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**NATARSHA BELLING:**

As we know, a certain health crisis, an aged care crisis is gripping many
parts of our country. We know the serious situation in many cities across
Australia, but it is certainly a massive issue and has been for many years in
many regional parts of our great country, is the result of years of neglect
from both the state and federal governments from both sides of politics. Many
of our hospital situations in regional areas, they're without adequate staff
or adequate training. Many people are having to go from rural and remote areas
to either the cities to get adequate health services or go to their major
metropolitan areas. Joining us now is Regional Health Minister Dr David
Gillespie- Gillespie, rather, to chat what is happening with our regional
health crisis. Good morning, Minister. Thanks so much for joining us.

**MINISTER GILLESPIE:**

My pleasure, Natarsha. Yeah, rural and regional health is right at the core of
my responsibilities. And you've mentioned a few of the problems, but there are
a lot of good stories, too. We have had a stronger rural health strategy for
several years now; between 2016-17 and now, there's 1300 extra GP's working in
regional, rural and remote areas. You wouldn't realise that but there are. And
there's 1200 extra nurses working in that same area. And allied health
professions - that's physios, occupational therapists - since 2016 to now,
there is 2500. But that is not to say we don't need to do a whole lot more.
There's problems in the public health system of hospitals in regional areas
and access to services, GP and specialists. But we have a lot of things lined
up that are already rolled out and we've just turbocharged them in the last
budget.

**NATARSHA BELLING:**

David, I think it's fantastic. I'm a huge advocate for rural Australia. We
need to ensure that the people in rural areas get exactly the same medical
services as those that live in metropolitan regions. How important do you
think it is that we ensure people in regional areas get access to adequate
health care?

**MINISTER GILLESPIE:**

Well, having worked in health as a doctor for 33 years before I came into
parliament, I- it's in my DNA, it runs in my veins. But in the last budget, we
have got improved access to MRIs, the most accurate diagnostic and technology
available. That's been deregulated. So, if a radiology practise in regional
Australia that wants to get a Medicare funding licence, go right ahead. We've
also, as you know, got 19 rural medical schools operating from all the major
universities in regional Australia.

But we've just added another 80 medical student places around this network.
They're up for grabs, and that will grow each year, another 80 young med
students training in regional Australia. We're supporting the aeromedical
services of Flying Doctor, CareFlight and Little Wings, and we have also
supported an amazing facility in regional Queensland at the Heart of Australia
bus, which is not only just delivering cardiology services around many remote
towns, but it's also doing chest health, psychiatry, endocrinology, diabetes
management. It's a great service, but we have got long term strategies in
place and they are working. We've also increased the bulk billing incentive in
the last budget, and the more remote you are, the bigger the bulk billing
incentive is.

And we have a lot of embedded policies of workforce incentive, extra payments
besides what Medicare pays if a doctor is working in a regional and remote
area as opposed to a metro area. So there's many layers and we're committed to
working with our state governments, which run the hospitals to fix this
dilemma, where we have country hospitals with retiring multi-skilled GPs, and
we need to populate them with young multi-skilled GPs.

**NATARSHA BELLING:**

David, you make an excellent point there. The fact that years ago, growing up
in the country, I knew firsthand the local GP was trained across everything
you could possibly imagine. There is still a massive issue, though, in rural
areas about retaining good GP's, because that's a result of a lot of things,
is the fact that they're facing increasing pressure in regional areas.

**MINISTER GILLESPIE:**

It's a bit- there's no one single reason, there's just lots of little things
that add up. Part of the training paradigm we've addressed, we have a rural
generalist training program with dedicated spots. We just- last year and this
year started to expand rural generalist training through the Australian
College of Rural Remote Medicine. Royal Australian College of GPs is on board,
they've got their rural training speciality program, to get that multi-skilled
GP that's just as comfortable in the clinic where you see them with your
family, or in the emergency department, or in the maternity labour ward
delivering a baby. My dad was one of those older, multi-skilled GP's, and we
have got a cohort that is training to have those skills.

We are just trying to get more of them. But then there's the partner issue. A
lot of doctors, over which half are women, have partners by the time they
finish their training. When I finished, it was about six years of med school
and an internship, and you could hang your shingle, whereas now you've got to
do two degrees to be a GP like any other specialist. So instead of being 25 or
26 and deciding where you're going to set up, now you're about 32 to 34. So by
that time, people have got partners and partner careers.

So, we've been working with our country colleagues to change the paradigm and
do more of that second degree- after you've done your uni, you do your
vocational training to become a member of a specialist college, whether it's
the GP colleges or a surgical or a psychiatry. We have changed the paradigm to
do that second-degree training in regional Australia so that when you're
putting your roots down, you're not stuck in a big city. We've tried to flip
the paradigm and we've put extra money into that with a specialist training
program - $700 million we just announced the other day - to train more of the
registrars in specialities in regional towns going over the next four years.

**NATARSHA BELLING:**

David, thank you for putting such a great focus on regional healthcare because
it's such an important issue. What is your biggest hurdle you're facing right
now?

**MINISTER GILLESPIE:**

Look, to change the mindset. It's a fantastic career. There's been a lot of
talking down of the profession. I'm trying to talk it up, because I know how
important primary healthcare is. It's been the base of our whole healthcare
system. And general practice, we're trying to make general sexy again. About
20, 30 years ago, there was this push towards everyone had to be a specialist
for the left elbow or the right finger rather than the whole body. And we're
trying to get that multi-skilled primary care practitioner, and in particular
in the country, also have hospital-based skills, working at the highest extent
of their appropriate training, and that's rural general-ism, or the old GP
obstetrician term or GP anaesthetists. That sort of doctor is what we need in
country towns.

I'm on a mission with my state health ministers to repopulate their country
hospitals, because at the same time as that rush to speciality, public
hospitals in all the states have gone towards centralisation. And I think
that's been a mistake. We want to have more skills distributed across all the
country hospitals, not just in the big major centres.

**NATARSHA BELLING:**

Yeah, incredibly well said. Dr David Gillespie, thanks so much for joining us
this morning on Australia Today.

**MINISTER GILLESPIE:**

My pleasure, Natarsha.

**NATARSHA BELLING:**

You have a great day.

Tags:

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

