Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

[Medicare](/topics/medicare)

# Medicare news

Read the latest news related to Medicare.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare news&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/news)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/news)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare news&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/news)

Loading...

## News

### [A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan –
March 2023 ](/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-
officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023-0?language=en)

4 April 2023

Newsletter

A newsletter from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan with
updates from the nursing and midwifery sector, some personal priorities and
highlights, and an insight on what's happening across the Department of Health
and Aged Care.

### [A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan –
March 2023 ](/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-
officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023?language=en)

4 April 2023

Newsletter

A newsletter from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan with
updates from the nursing and midwifery sector, some personal priorities and
highlights, and an insight on what's happening across the Department of Health
and Aged Care.

[ ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/crest_stacked_16_9.png) ](/news/victorian-
woman-found-guilty-of-defrauding-medicare?language=en)

### [Victorian woman found guilty of defrauding Medicare ](/news/victorian-
woman-found-guilty-of-defrauding-medicare?language=en)

17 March 2023

Media release

A Victorian medical receptionist has been sentenced today to 2 years
imprisonment, with a minimum term of 12 months by the Melbourne County Court
after pleading guilty to charging more than $181,000 in fraudulent Medicare
payments.

[ ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/crest_stacked_16_9.png) ](/news/ashgrove-
pharmacist-found-guilty-for-more-than-19m-in-medicare-fraud?language=en)

### [Ashgrove pharmacist found guilty for more than $1.9m in Medicare fraud
](/news/ashgrove-pharmacist-found-guilty-for-more-than-19m-in-medicare-
fraud?language=en)

14 March 2023

Media release

A pharmacist has been convicted and sentenced to five years imprisonment
today, after pleading guilty to fraudulently claiming more than $1.9 million
in payments under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS).

[ ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/crest_stacked_16_9.png) ](/news/jail-time-for-
pharmacist-and-practice-manager?language=en)

### [Jail time for Pharmacist and Practice Manager ](/news/jail-time-for-
pharmacist-and-practice-manager?language=en)

7 February 2023

Media release

A Pharmacist and Practice Manager from across Australia were sentenced last
week after fraudulently claiming more than $470,000 in payments under the
Medicare Benefits Scheme (MBS) and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS).

[
![""](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2023-02/release-
of-the-strengthening-medicare-taskforce-report_1.jpg?itok=o0qbkbFy)
](/news/release-of-the-strengthening-medicare-taskforce-report)

### [Release of the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce Report ](/news/release-
of-the-strengthening-medicare-taskforce-report?language=en)

3 February 2023

News

The Strengthening Medicare Taskforce Report is now available. It outlines a
vision for Australia’s primary care system of the future.

[ ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/crest_stacked_16_9.png) ](/news/medical-
receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-more-than-253k-of-medicare-
fraud?language=en)

### [Medical receptionist sentenced to jail for more than $253k of Medicare
fraud ](/news/medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-more-than-253k-of-
medicare-fraud?language=en)

27 January 2023

Media release

A medical receptionist from south-eastern Queensland has been convicted after
fraudulently claiming more than $253,000 in Medicare payments.

### [A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan –
December 2022 ](/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-
officer-alison-mcmillan-december-2022?language=en)

16 December 2022

Newsletter

A newsletter from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan with
updates from the nursing and midwifery sector, some personal priorities and
highlights, and an insight on what's happening across the Department of Health
and Aged Care.

[ ![Medicare
card](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2022-11/medibank-
private-and-ahm-data-breach.jpeg?itok=sd9TbazF) ](/news/medibank-private-and-
ahm-data-breach)

### [Medibank Private and AHM data breach ](/news/medibank-private-and-ahm-
data-breach?language=en)

15 November 2022

News

Find out what your need to do if your Medicare number, or Medicare provider
number has been exposed.

[ ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/crest_stacked_16_9.png) ](/news/cairns-
medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-178k-medicare-fraud?language=en)

### [Cairns medical receptionist sentenced to jail for $178k Medicare fraud
](/news/cairns-medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-178k-medicare-
fraud?language=en)

19 August 2022

Media release

A Cairns woman has been convicted after pleading guilty to fraudulently
claiming more than $178,000 in Medicare payments.

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Page 3 ](?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=2 "Go to page 3")
  * [ Next page Next › ](?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=2 "Go to last page")

[View more news](/news?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC)

Last updated:

23 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

