Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Budget 2023–⁠24: Delivering the largest ever pay rise to aged care workers

The 2023–24 Budget delivers on the Albanese Government’s commitment to restore
dignity to aged care and ensure older Australians are treated with the respect
they deserve with an overall spend in aged care of $36 billion in 2023–24.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Budget 2023–⁠24: Delivering the largest ever pay rise to aged care workers&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/budget-2023-24-delivering-the-largest-ever-pay-rise-to-aged-care-workers)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/budget-2023-24-delivering-the-largest-ever-pay-rise-to-aged-care-workers)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Budget 2023–⁠24: Delivering the largest ever pay rise to aged care workers&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/budget-2023-24-delivering-the-largest-ever-pay-rise-to-aged-care-workers)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

9 May 2023

Date published:

9 May 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The Government recognises the complex and previously undervalued work of the
aged care workforce which is why we are investing $11.3 billion to fund the
Fair Work Commission’s interim decision for a 15% pay increase.

This is the largest ever pay increase for aged care workers. It signifies real
progress towards genuinely valuing their dedication and skill and will help
aged care providers attract and retain staff.

We will invest in our workers with advancements to the National Worker
Registration Scheme, engaging with the aged care, health and training sectors
($59.5m).

We will invest $72.3 million in a new regulatory model and prudential
framework, to be reflected in a new Aged Care Act. This Budget investment will
improve quality and safety, and restore trust and confidence through changes
in how providers are regulated. The new model will be complemented by actions
to:

  * strengthen food and nutrition reporting, direct expert dietary advice to providers and embed improved dining experiences for aged care residents ($12.9m)
  * begin Monthly Care Statements with information on care provided and occurrences of significant change or events for residents ($1.3m)
  * enhance Star Ratings for better data quality and analysis ($126.7m)
  * expand the existing Quality Indicator program to in-home care services ($11.9m).

Older Australians increasingly want to receive aged care and live
independently in their own homes for longer. This Budget provides 9,500
additional Home Care Packages, to be released in 2023-24, and establishes new
aged care assessment arrangements from July 2024.

A new Aged Care Taskforce will be established to review aged care funding
arrangements and develop options to make the system fair and equitable for all
Australians.

The Taskforce will also inform the final design of the Support at Home program
which will be postponed to commence on 1 July 2025, in response to feedback
and to allow time to further refine the design. A July 2025 start date, will
also ensure aged care service providers are well prepared for the change,
avoiding disruptions to continuity of care for older people. Existing grant
arrangements for the Commonwealth Home Support Programme will be extended for
a further 12 months to 30 June 2025.

For older people requiring residential care, we will develop systems to help
choose their provider, giving them greater choice and control in decision
making.

Aged care residents will have better access to high quality, continuous
primary care through reforms to strengthen Medicare, with new incentives for
GPs to provide care to residents through MyMedicare ($112m).

We will continue to support the viability of aged care providers in rural and
remote areas and address a shocking inequity that saw providers of culturally
safe care for First Nations elders funded less, per resident, than other
mainstream providers, through a funding uplift to the National Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander Flexible Aged Care Program ($52.1m).

The Budget also provides support to build the capacity of Aboriginal
Controlled Organisations so that First Nations elders will continue to receive
the care they need on Country ($7.6m).

**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

‘This Budget continues our strong agenda on aged care, increasing our
workforce, and improving care, transparency and accountability in the sector.’

‘Aged care workers have been undervalued and underpaid for too long – we are
supporting a wage increase for them because it’s the right thing to do.’

**Quotes attributable to Minister Wells:**

‘We are ambitious for aged care and determined to ensure the older people who
helped build this country receive safe, high quality, support.’

‘This Budget meets these challenges head-on, with targeted and responsible
investments that put the health, wellbeing and dignity of older Australians
receiving aged care front and centre.’

‘I invite Australians to be ambitious with the Albanese Government and commit
to the future of aged care as we build a system that is equitable,
sustainable, and trusted to deliver quality services for older people.’

Tags:

  * [About the department](/topics/about-the-department)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Anika Wells MP](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

