Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Assistant Minister McBride – press conference in Wollongong – 15 May 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's press conference in
Wollongong about strengthening Medicare and cheaper medicines.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Assistant Minister McBride – press conference in Wollongong – 15 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-press-conference-in-wollongong-15-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-press-conference-in-wollongong-15-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Assistant Minister McBride – press conference in Wollongong – 15 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-press-conference-in-wollongong-15-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

15 May 2023

Date published:

16 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** I'm so pleased to be here in the
Illawarra today with the Member for Cunningham, Alison Byrnes. We've made a
significant investment in bulk billing, particularly for people living outside
major cities. What we've seen in this Budget is $3.5 billion to triple the
bulk billing incentive so practices like this can continue to bulk bull
children under 16, age pensioners, and people who hold other healthcare and
concession cards.

We've seen, under the former government, a dramatic drop in bulk billing right
across Australia, leaving some of the most vulnerable people unable to access
care, ending up in the emergency departments of our already overstretched
hospital system. So, this investment will mean that practices like King Street
Medical and Dental can continue to bulk bill children under 16, older people,
and health care card holders. We know what a difference it makes to your
health to be able to get the right care when you need it, affordably and close
to home. And we're so pleased to be able to support bulk billing, particularly
in regional centres and right across Australia. Our Government is committed to
strengthening Medicare, so all Australians can get the health care they need.

**JOURNALIST:** And you just touched on it there, it was for under 16s and
pension card holders, what is in it for the people that don't fit in to those
categories?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** So, we know practices like this have
such a strong interest in community and making sure that everyone, whatever
their bank balance, can afford care. So, there'll be around 11 million
Australians who will benefit directly from this policy, and many more
Australians that will have a wider benefit from it. We know that practices
were sometimes forced to cross subsidise by increasing the co-payment to other
people, because they didn't have enough through a bulk billing incentive, so
by increasing the bulk billing incentive, children under 16, age pensioners
and other healthcare card holders will be bulk billed, and other people will
be likely paying less in a co-payment.

**JOURNALIST:** So under 16s and pensioners, they're the priority group?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** We absolutely want to make sure that
everybody gets quality health care close to home, we of course have a
particular emphasis on the most vulnerable to make sure that they can get
care. And we know that with cost-of-living pressures, children under 16,
families and older people are really feeling the pressure. So, this is a very
good cost of living incentive to reduce medical bills, which will have a big
impact, particularly on families, but right across Australia.

**JOURNALIST:** And how many clinics do you see taking up this opportunity? Or
is there a quota the Government would like to meet?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** I was at the Rural Health Conference in
Tasmania over the weekend, and Tasmania has some of the lowest rates of bulk
billing in Australia, and I spoke to the rural president of the Royal
Australian College of General Practice, I spoke to the incoming president, RT,
of the Rural Doctors Association, and they were very confident that practices
which felt they might be forced to stop bulk billing come 1 July, will be able
to continue. And I spoke to a local GP, Jess, who said to me they'd
reluctantly had to stop bulk billing towards the end of last year, and they'll
now be able to reintroduce it. So, the Government's given every investment we
can to strengthen Medicare and I'm so pleased to hear that feedback already,
from peak bodies, from GPs in communities, particularly where there was a
sharp drop in bulk billing, that we're going to see an increase in bulk
billing.

**JOURNALIST:** As you mentioned regional communities typically have less
access to affordable health care. In Cunningham, Alison's electorate, just 9%
of clinics bulk bill, which is the second lowest in Greater Sydney. Is the
whole thing behind this making sure we can increase those numbers, especially
in rural and regional communities?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Absolutely, that is our intention as a
Government. Strengthening Medicare is one of our top priorities. Minister
Butler stood up the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce, we committed $750
million over three years and we've exceeded that. This is a $3.5 billion
investment in tripling the bulk billing incentive.

At the same time, we're providing grants to general practices to be able to
upgrade their IT or improve their equipment for infection prevention and
control.

We're introducing the single employer model, which means that doctors training
in hospitals can move seamlessly from their hospital-based training to working
in general practice.

We're investing in innovative models of care, including multidisciplinary
teams so you can see what you see here, where you've got a psychologist who
can have a direct conversation with the GP about a patient and their care.

So, we're making investment across the whole pipeline to see more doctors
going into general practice, general practice better supported to provide that
care and incentives through the WIP, the multidisciplinary team, so we are
getting team-based care, which is the right care.

**JOURNALIST:** I'll just ask you about pharmacy as well. Is that policy set
in stone or is there room to move, for pharmacists to choose between 30 and 60
days?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** The advice that was given to the Health
Minister, Minister Butler, from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee
had existed since 2018. And that advice said that it could move to 90 days or
60 days. So, Minister Butler has made the decision on that advice to move to
60 days. This is a cost-of-living Budget. We're giving cost-of-living relief
where we can. This will make it more affordable for almost 6 million
Australians to be able to get their medicines.

We're very keen for all healthcare practitioners to be able to work to the top
of their skills and training, so we've seen a decision in the Budget as well
that pharmacists will now be able to access, for children over 5, the National
Immunisation Program. Anything that has been saved is being directly invested
back into community pharmacy. We value community pharmacy. I'm a pharmacist,
I've worked in community pharmacy, we want to see a strong community pharmacy,
in every town, and in every city. And we know that we need healthcare workers
to work to the top of their skills and training and their scope of practice.

We've announced a national scope of practice review, to look at how every
health care professional will be able to use all of their skills and training
so that Australians can benefit. So with this, everything will be reinvested
into community pharmacy, pharmacists will have an expanded scope of practice
as they had already. And we're really keen to continue working with community
pharmacists and their representative body to make sure that we have a vibrant
and strong community pharmacy sector so every Australian can get affordable
medicine close to home and quality care.

**JOURNALIST:** You just mentioned you're a pharmacist and you've given us the
Labor policy, do you share the concerns that pharmacists have?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** I'm really proud to be part of a Labor
Government that is so strongly focused on making health care affordable. And
this is an important measure to make sure that every Australian can access
quality care. We're very keen to work in strong collaboration with the
pharmacy sector to make sure that we can see that expanded scope of practice
so pharmacists can continue to provide immunisations, like I did, giving jabs
during COVID. We want to make sure that the community pharmacy sector is
strong, any savings made are being redirected back into community pharmacy, so
that pharmacists can work to the top of their skills and training to make sure
that we can get every health practitioner contributing as much as they can to
healthcare.

**JOURNALIST:** What do you think of the concerns about medicine shortages?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** From the first of July, there will be a
requirement that there will be 6 months of medicines onshore. Across lots of
different sectors, Australia was exposed through global supply chains. So,
from the first of July, there will be a requirement to have 6 months supply of
all medicines onshore in Australia.

**JOURNALIST:** Do you think it's achievable given the shortages at the
moment?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** I think that we are putting every
measure in place to make sure that we have a strong supply chain, from the
manufacturers, through the wholesalers through to pharmacists dispensing the
medication. We are working very closely, the Government is working very
closely through the Department of Health with the advisory bodies to make sure
that the measures that we put in place are safe. And we've been assured that
we will have those secure supply chain so people can get the medicine they
need.

**JOURNALIST:** They're starting a petition down on the South Coast. What is
your message to them? Anything you can say which might give a peace of mind to
them? Or what's your reaction to that?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Our Government values community
pharmacy. Everything that has come out of the maximum dispensing quantities
will be directly invested back into community pharmacy. We have this national
scope of practice review, which is a way of looking at removing outdated red
tape and silos to make sure that we have team-based care, which is the right
care. So as a pharmacist, myself, as a pharmacist immuniser, I know how much
pharmacists have to offer. And we want to make sure that they have the
opportunity to work to their top of their skills and training, working in
teams with GPs, like here at King Street Medical and Dental, with
psychologists, with social workers, to make sure that we have strong
interdisciplinary, team-based care that we know is the right kind of care.

**JOURNALIST:** Tell me a bit about your reaction to the Government's new
bulk-billing incentive.

**ALISON BYRNES, MEMBER FOR CUNNINGHAM:** It has been such a welcome relief
for so many people in our community to see the single biggest investment in
bulk billing in a very, very long time. I've had a lot of contact from
constituents who are really relieved, and certainly here at King Street
Medical Centre, they are very happy to be able to get some support in allowing
them to continue to bulk bill their most vulnerable patients.

**JOURNALIST:** So Cunningham has the rate of bulk billing at 9%, and they are
significantly low numbers. What is your reaction to that?

**ALISON BYRNES, MEMBER FOR CUNNINGHAM:** It's something that we have lobbied
very strongly for, Stephen and myself, to Mark Butler, and also to Emma as
well, so something we've delivered in the Budget is a tripling of the bulk
billing incentive for eligible patients.

**JOURNALIST:** Are you confident that people in this electorate will take up
this opportunity?

**ALISON BYRNES, MEMBER FOR CUNNINGHAM:** Absolutely. We've got King Street
Medical Centre here today, saying what a big relief it is for them. And it
will actually help them to be able to bulk-bill their most vulnerable patients
and other concession card holders.

**JOURNALIST:** Is it going to make it easier for people to see a doctor in
general? Bulk billing aside, that's been a big concern for people, just being
able to get an appointment.

**ALISON BYRNES, MEMBER FOR CUNNINGHAM:** Certainly, being able to get an
appointment here in the Illawarra has been really problematic, and that is
across the country. And it's something that we're very conscious of, but
actually this investment in tripling the bulk billing incentive will allow
particularly our most vulnerable people to get in and see a doctor.

**JOURNALIST:** How can we ensure the rollout of Electrify 2515's plan for an
all-electric Illawarra? How does the Budget support this movement?

**ALISON BYRNES, MEMBER FOR CUNNINGHAM:** Well, we've got a $1.3 billion
investment in the Budget for electrification and Electrify 2515 has been doing
some amazing work. I've been working very closely with Saul Griffith and the
Electrify 2515 team. They're also applying for some arena funding as well,
which is through an independent body, but certainly any ideas they've got, I'm
more than happy to represent them in Canberra, and it's certainly something
I've been working very hard on. We've had our Renewable Energy Expo down in
Canberra, where we took Wollongong to the world. We had people from embassies,
we had politicians, we had industry leaders, we had apprentices all there to
see the great work that Wollongong businesses are doing in the cleaner energy
space.

**JOURNALIST:** Tell me your initial thoughts about this $3.5 billion
incentive.

**DR KATHERINE MICHELMORE, GENERAL PRACTITIONER:** We're really pleased.
Speaking as a GP, and for the GPs in this practice, about the current
recommendations for this Budget, it's the first time general practice has had
something to feel pretty optimistic about. Obviously, it's the first step,
there's still a lot more that we're going to need to ensure continuity of care
and chronic disease management with general practice. But yes, we are excited.

**JOURNALIST:** Are you hoping this will attract more GPs to bulk bill and
ease the burden off this clinic?

**DR KATHERINE MICHELMORE, GENERAL PRACTITIONER:** Look, I think the raise to
the bulk billing incentive is definitely welcome. It's obviously restricted to
certain groups so there are some people who are going to be feeling like it's
not going to improve their access. I'd like to see it extended to Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander people, because they are very vulnerable. And I
think we need to focus on closing the gap, and recognising that there are
still health disparities for our First Nations peoples. But it's definitely a
start and definitely positive.

I think we do need to address the issue that this is great if you have a GP,
and you have access to your GP and you'll be able to have more affordable care
in practices with mixed billing, or bulk billing. However, there's still a
shortage of doctors. And I'm looking to this Government to hopefully continue
working on that. I think we need more doctors, we need more GPs, and that's
across the country. So as a practitioner, I'm very pleased that we're moving
in the right direction, but there's still a lot to do.

**JOURNALIST:** Here in this practice, you're already bulk billing kids under
16 and concession card holders, so it won't actually change what those
patients come in and pay, is that right?

**DR KATHERINE MICHELMORE, GENERAL PRACTITIONER:** That's not going to change
for our patients here. But as a practice, and for us as GPs, it makes a big
difference, because it means that the practice is going to be more viable. And
you know, that's important. That means that we can continue to bulk bill our
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. And I'd like to see that
happening across more practices throughout Australia.

**JOURNALIST:** So it makes it more affordable for them?

**DR KATHERINE MICHELMORE, GENERAL PRACTITIONER:** It makes, it makes the
practice more viable, yes.

**JOURNALIST:** And does it change things at all for other patients who don't
fall into those concessions? Like will they see any difference in their gap
fee?

**DR KATHERINE MICHELMORE, GENERAL PRACTITIONER:** I think that obviously,
that's a question that needs to be worked out. And obviously, we're talking
about these very positive measures, but they don't actually come into place
until November. So many practices across Australia are still having to manage
with the current rates at the moment. So I think perhaps, extrapolating as to
how it's going to affect other delegates is perhaps a little premature.

**JOURNALIST:** What will happen up until that point, what do you do then?

**DR KATHERINE MICHELMORE, GENERAL PRACTITIONER:** Well, I presume that some
practices will be looking at whether or not they can continue to bulk bill or
whether they'll make some changes in the future. But obviously, it's supposed
to be an individual reaction according to where people are, what the cost of
rents and maintaining practices is for people. But here this practice will
continue to do as we have.

**JOURNALIST:** We've heard that less people are wanting to go to GPs, and
it's harder to make ends meet for GPs. Do you feel buoyed by the changes that
happened in the Budget? That it makes a difference for the profession and for
someone doing their job?

**DR KATHERINE MICHELMORE, GENERAL PRACTITIONER:** As I said, it's perhaps the
first time in a long time that we've had cause for optimism. I don't think the
problems are fixed. I think there needs to be a lot more energy and training
general practitioners, and we'll need more GPs, definitely. But I think
Australia needs to train more doctors generally, and I think that's a big
issue. In Australia, I think we still bring in as many doctors as we have
graduates each year and so that's still an issue.

**JOURNALIST:** Is there anything else you would like to mention?

**DR KATHERINE MICHELMORE, GENERAL PRACTITIONER:** I think as a GP, I'm quite
excited about the fact that there's money going towards smoking cessation and
trying to control vaping. And I'm excited about the idea that we're going to
be doing lung cancer screening so I'm looking forward to more detail on that.
I think that's going to be really important to the management of chronic
disease.

**JOURNALIST:** Thank you very much.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

