Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)

[Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-
prevention)

# Mental health and suicide prevention resources

A list of resources about mental health and suicide prevention in Australia.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Mental health and suicide prevention resources&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-resources)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-resources)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Mental health and suicide prevention resources&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-resources)

Loading...

## Resources

![Budget 2023–⁠24: Mental health fact
sheet](/sites/default/files/2023-05/laying-the-groundwork-for-mental-health-
and-suicide-prevention-system-reform-budget-2023-24.jpg)

### [Laying the groundwork for mental health and suicide prevention system
reform – Budget 2023–24 ](/resources/publications/laying-the-groundwork-for-
mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-system-reform-budget-2023-24?language=en)

9 May 2023

Fact sheet

This Budget 2023–24 fact sheet outlines reforms to the mental health and
suicide prevention system. The Australian Government will address workforce
shortages and urgent gaps, and extend critical services. This will lay the
groundwork for future reform.

![Cover page The Way Back Support Services Evaluation – Final
report](/sites/default/files/2023-03/the-way-back-support-services-evaluation-
final-evaluation-report.jpg)

### [The Way Back Support Services Evaluation – Final evaluation report
](/resources/publications/the-way-back-support-services-evaluation-final-
evaluation-report?language=en)

24 March 2023

Report

This report details how well The Way Back Support Service was being delivered,
participant experiences and outcomes, and what contributes to recovery after a
suicide attempt or crisis, for whom and how.

![Cover page The Way Back Support Services Evaluation –
Appendices](/sites/default/files/2023-03/the-way-back-support-services-
evaluation-final-evaluation-report-appendices.jpg)

### [The Way Back Support Services Evaluation – Final evaluation report
appendices ](/resources/publications/the-way-back-support-services-evaluation-
final-evaluation-report-appendices?language=en)

24 March 2023

Report

A sequential list of supplemental information to accompany The Way Back
Support Services Final Evaluation Report.

![Cover image for Better Access – Involving family or carers in my mental
health treatment](/sites/default/files/2023-03/better-access-involving-family-
or-carers-in-my-mental-health-treatment.png)

### [Better Access – Involving family or carers in my mental health treatment
](/resources/publications/better-access-involving-family-or-carers-in-my-
mental-health-treatment?language=en)

3 March 2023

Fact sheet

This fact sheet outlines available Medicare rebates under the MBS initiative
(Better Access).

![Cover page Evaluation of the Program of Assistance for Survivors of Torture
and Trauma \(PASTT\) final report](/sites/default/files/2022-12/evaluation-of-
the-program-of-assistance-for-survivors-of-torture-and-trauma-pastt-final-
report.jpg)

### [Evaluation of the Program of Assistance for Survivors of Torture and
Trauma (PASTT) final report ](/resources/publications/evaluation-of-the-
program-of-assistance-for-survivors-of-torture-and-trauma-pastt-final-
report?language=en)

22 December 2022

Report

The PASTT evaluation assessed the effectiveness, accessibility,
appropriateness and cost effectiveness of PASTT in contributing to the
successful resettlement of humanitarian entrants in Australia.

![Appendices - Evaluation of the Better
Access](/sites/default/files/2022-12/appendices-evaluation-of-the-better-
access-initiative.jpg)

### [Appendices – Evaluation of the Better Access initiative
](/resources/publications/appendices-evaluation-of-the-better-access-
initiative?language=en)

12 December 2022

Report

Appendices supporting the final report of an independent evaluation of the
Better Access to Psychiatrists, Psychologists and General Practitioners
through the Medicare Benefits Schedule (Better Access) Initiative by the
University of Melbourne.

![BA Evaluation – Executive Summary](/sites/default/files/2022-12/executive-
summary-evaluation-of-the-better-access-initiative.jpg)

### [Executive Summary – Evaluation of the Better Access initiative
](/resources/publications/executive-summary-evaluation-of-the-better-access-
initiative?language=en)

12 December 2022

Report

This is the executive summary of the final report of an independent evaluation
of the Better Access to Psychiatrists, Psychologists and General Practitioners
through the Medicare Benefits Schedule (Better Access) Initiative by the
University of Melbourne.

![Conclusions and Recommendations - Evaluation of the Better
Access](/sites/default/files/2022-12/conclusions-and-recommendations-
evaluation-of-the-better-access-initiative.jpg)

### [Conclusions and recommendations – Evaluation of the Better Access
initiative ](/resources/publications/conclusions-and-recommendations-
evaluation-of-the-better-access-initiative?language=en)

12 December 2022

Report

Recommendations from the Evaluation of the Better Access to Psychiatrists,
Psychologists and General Practitioners through the Medicare Benefits Schedule
(Better Access)

![Main Report - Evaluation of the Better
Access](/sites/default/files/2022-12/main-report-evaluation-of-the-better-
access-initiative.jpg)

### [Main Report – Evaluation of the Better Access initiative
](/resources/publications/main-report-evaluation-of-the-better-access-
initiative?language=en)

12 December 2022

Report

This is the final report of an independent evaluation of the Better Access to
Psychiatrists, Psychologists and General Practitioners through the Medicare
Benefits Schedule (Better Access) Initiative by the University of Melbourne.

![Keep Your Spirit Strong
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/videos/2020/12/coronavirus-
covid-19-social-and-emotional-wellbeing-resources-for-aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islanders-key-video-animation.jpg?itok=19IxEpoA)

1:43

### [Coronavirus (COVID-19) social and emotional wellbeing resources for
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders – key video animation
](/resources/videos/coronavirus-covid-19-social-and-emotional-wellbeing-
resources-for-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islanders-key-video-
animation?language=en)

23 December 2020

Story

This video animation for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders has been
developed to support a new national social and emotional wellbeing and mental
health awareness project Keep Your Spirit Strong.  

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Page 3 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=2 "Go to page 3")
  * [ Page 4 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=3 "Go to page 4")
  * [ Page 5 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=4 "Go to page 5")
  * [ Page 6 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=5 "Go to page 6")
  * [ Page 7 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=6 "Go to page 7")
  * [ Page 8 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=7 "Go to page 8")
  * [ Page 9 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=8 "Go to page 9")
  * …
  * [ Next page Next › ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=17 "Go to last page")

[View all
resources](/resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

Last updated:

30 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-
prevention)

  * [About mental health](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/about-mental-health)
  * [Mental health in Australia](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-in-australia)
  * [What we're doing about mental health](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/what-were-doing-about-mental-health)
  * [About suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/about-suicide-prevention)
  * [Suicide in Australia](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/suicide-in-australia)
  * [What we're doing about suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/what-were-doing-about-suicide-prevention)
  * [News](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

