Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  3. [Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

[Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

# Innovative digital projects to boost awareness about organ and tissue
donation for young Australians

Six recipients will share over $368,000 in Community Awareness Grants to boost
awareness about organ and tissue donation and help highlight how easy it is
for young Australians to register to become a donor.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Innovative digital projects to boost awareness about organ and tissue donation for young Australians&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/innovative-digital-projects-to-boost-awareness-about-organ-and-tissue-donation-for-young-australians)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/innovative-digital-projects-to-boost-awareness-about-organ-and-tissue-donation-for-young-australians)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Innovative digital projects to boost awareness about organ and tissue donation for young Australians&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/innovative-digital-projects-to-boost-awareness-about-organ-and-tissue-donation-for-young-australians)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-
mp_1.jpg?itok=uQuoas5f)

**The Hon Ged Kearney MP**  
Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

30 March 2023

Date published:

30 March 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

Six recipients will share over $368,000 in Community Awareness Grants to boost
awareness about organ and tissue donation and help highlight how easy it is
for young Australians to register to become a donor.

Despite research showing their support, 16–25-year-olds have the lowest organ
and tissue donor registration rates across the nation with only 10% of the 3.2
million eligible young adults currently registered.

The grants will deliver youth-focused social media campaigns and content,
research projects, an annual awareness event, and the creation of digital
educational resources specifically focused on young Australians.

One organ donor can save up to seven lives and with around 1,800 people on the
organ transplant waitlist, more can be done to raise awareness about the
importance of registering as an organ and tissue donor and telling your family
you want to be a donor.

In a hospital, 8 in 10 families say yes, if asked whether their family member
had registered or wanted to be a donor. However, only 4 out of 10 families say
yes when they are uncertain about whether their family member wanted to be a
donor.

Registering to be an organ and tissue donor is easy. It takes just three taps
on the Medicare app, or just one minute at
[donatelife.gov.au](https://gedkearney.us19.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1c6f5f579a3b893243e5df472&id=fc155d8434&e=6843271f52).

**Quotes attributable to Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care Ged
Kearney MP**

“We know that young people support organ and tissue donation, but only 10% are
registered.

“Reaching young people in the ways that work for them is exactly what these
grants are designed to do, to boost those registration numbers and get them
talking about organ and tissue donation.

“It’s just so easy to register. I encourage everyone to do it today and have
that all important conversation with your loved ones about your intentions.”

**Applicant**

|

**Project focus**

|

**$ (GST excl.)**  
  
---|---|---  
  
**Make Mate**

|

Target young online gamers through in game promotional activities about the
importance of organ and tissue donation.

|

$55,000  
  
**Wattle St Pty Ltd**

|

Target Gen Z males who are significantly under-represented in the Australian
Organ Donation Register via an integrated social media campaign.

|

$80,000  
  
**Pixel 42**

|

Develop video promotional assets guided by audience research and behaviour for
distribution via social media.

|

$70,000  
  
**University of Newcastle**

|

Develop research-led digital media content to engage university students
across Australians to talk to their families about organ and tissue donation
and dispel common myths and address misinformation.

|

$73,000  
  
**La Trobe University**

|

Creation of digital educational and promotional resources to resonate with
young Australians and disseminate.

|

$40,000  
  
**Gift of Life Inc**

|

Community led awareness event, encouraging Australians, including secondary
schools, to get involved in the annual Gift of Life Walks, raising awareness
about the importance of organ and tissue donation.

|

$50,000  
  
Tags:

  * [Organ and tissue donation](/topics/organ-and-tissue-donation)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

