Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  4. [Health technology assessments](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments)

[Health technology assessments (HTAs)](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health/health-technology-assessments)

# HTA for Australian Government subsidy

We use health technology assessment processes to decide if approved products
or services should be included in our subsidy programs.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=HTA for Australian Government subsidy&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/for-subsidy)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/for-subsidy)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=HTA for Australian Government subsidy&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/for-subsidy)

Loading...

On this page

## Main subsidy programs

A manufacturer or sponsor of a health technology can apply for it to be listed
on one of our subsidy programs, such as the:

  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS)
  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) (MBS)
  * [Prostheses List](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list "The Prostheses List") (PL).

This reduces the cost to Australians, which means more people can access the
technology.

## Purpose of HTA for subsidy

The Australian Government cannot financially support every new health
technology that comes onto the market.

We use HTAs to direct Government subsidies to health technologies that are
clinically relevant, cost effective and safe.

The HTA process provides our principal HTA committees with information they
use when providing advice to the Government on whether a health technology
should be subsidised.

## What HTAs assess for

HTAs for subsidy purposes analyse evidence of the benefits, harms and costs of
a health technology to determine its value. Value involves:

  * clinical effectiveness – does the health technology work?
  * safety – is it safe to use?
  * costs – how much will it cost to use?
  * economic implications – is it good value for money?
  * other information – what are the relevant clinical needs, or social or ethical issues?

Assessors measure health impacts and costs against what is already used
(called the comparator). This helps decide whether the extra benefits from a
new health technology are enough to justify any extra costs to the healthcare
system.

## Principal HTA committees

Three principal health technology assessment committees advise the Minister
for Health about subsidy decisions.

**Principal HTA committee**

|

**Types of health technology assessed**

|

**Related Australian Government subsidy programs**  
  
---|---|---  
  
[Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory
Committee](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/industry/listing/participants/pbac)
(PBAC)

|

Medicines

Vaccines

|

[Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS)

[National Immunisation Program](/node/3381) (NIP)  
  
[Medical Services Advisory
Committee](http://msac.gov.au/internet/msac/publishing.nsf/Content/about-msac)
(MSAC)

|

Medical services

Health technologies

Blood products

Screening programs

|

[Medicare Benefits
Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
(MBS)

[National Blood Agreement](https://www.blood.gov.au/national-blood-agreement)  
  
[Prostheses List Advisory Committee](/node/10076) (PLAC)

|

Prostheses

|

[Prostheses List](/node/10065) (PL)  
  
## Codependent technologies

A codependent technology is a medical technology or service that relies on
another technology to work properly. The principal HTA committees work
together as needed to assess codependent technologies.

An example is a test (which MSAC considers) that guides the use of a medicine
(which PBAC considers).

Sponsors need to submit codependent applications to each relevant committee.

## How to apply

See the following guides for details on how to apply for listing on the:

  * PBS – [Procedure guidance for listing medicines on the PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/industry/listing/listing-steps)
  * MBS – [How to apply for public funding](http://www.msac.gov.au/internet/msac/publishing.nsf/Content/how-to-apply-for-public-funding)
  * PL – [Prostheses List Guide](/resources/publications/prostheses-list-guide "Prostheses List Guide") and [Prostheses List Management System](https://prostheses.health.gov.au/wps/portal/register/!ut/p/z1/04_Sj9CPykssy0xPLMnMz0vMAfIjo8ziTT29PQ1MDIy8_Z2cXAwcPX1CfVwtDY0M_E31wwkpiAJKG-AAjgZA_VGElBTkRhikOyoqAgCQuY7S/dz/d5/L2dBISEvZ0FBIS9nQSEh/).

## Monitoring and review of health technologies

We have systems and process in place to review and monitor the use of health
technologies.

### Therapeutic goods

The [TGA’s postmarket monitoring system](https://www.tga.gov.au/postmarket-
monitoring) continually evaluates the safety, efficacy or performance of
therapeutic goods that are available on the market.

### PBS-subsidised medicines

[Post-market reviews of PBS-subsidised
medicines](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/reviews/subsidised-medicines-reviews)
are part of our commitment to the quality use of medicines in Australia.

### MBS items

We carry out an ongoing review of MBS items through the [MBS Continuous
Review](/our-work/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review "Medicare
Benefits Schedule \(MBS\) Continuous Review"). We report to MSAC on [predicted
versus actual use of MBS
items](http://www.msac.gov.au/internet/msac/publishing.nsf/Content/Predicted-
versus-Actual), to check if they are being used as intended.

Last updated:

13 April 2022

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health)

  * [About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about)
  * [What we do](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/what-we-do)
  * [Health technology assessments (HTAs)](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments)
    * [Market authorisation](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/market-authorisation-for-regulation)
    * [HTA for Australian Government subsidy](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/for-subsidy)
    * [How to get involved with HTAs](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/get-involved)
    * [HTA reforms and reviews](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/reviews)
  * [News](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

