Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

#  Minister for Health and Aged Care – transcript – ABC Afternoon Briefing –
10 May 2023

Read the transcript of Minister Butler's interview with Greg Jennett about
strengthening Medicare and bulk billing.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text= Minister for Health and Aged Care – transcript – ABC Afternoon Briefing – 10 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-transcript-abc-afternoon-briefing-10-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-transcript-abc-afternoon-briefing-10-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject= Minister for Health and Aged Care – transcript – ABC Afternoon Briefing – 10 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-transcript-abc-afternoon-briefing-10-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

10 May 2023

Date published:

11 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** The biggest single element of new spending that hadn't
been foreshadowed before Budget night has come through a package focused on
Medicare. Doctors will be paid more to bulk bill younger and low-income
patients, or those on concession cards. Health Minister Mark Butler is
responsible and he's with us in the studio now.

Welcome back, Mark. Triple the bulk billing incentive paid to doctors, in many
cases it’s $6, goes to around $20. You expect that 11 million people will be
eligible to now be bulk billed because of this incentive. Do you have a number
for those that you actually expect to be?

**MINISTER FOR HEALTH AND AGED CARE, MARK BUTLER:** You’re right, Greg. This
is the most vulnerable, the most in need group of patients – children, so 16
and under, pensioners, concession cardholders, a bit less than half the
population but account for more than 60% of activity in GP practices. And,
really disturbingly, we are actually seeing bulk billing rates start to drop
for that cohort as well. We've seen a drop for many years for general
patients. There's been a particularly sharp drop in recent years which is the
product, really, of a Medicare rebate freeze in place under the last
government but we've got to secure bulk billing for children, for pensioners
and for concession cardholders. And our initiative last night to triple the
bulk bulling incentive will be as the College of GPs has said: 'a game-
changer' in that sense.

**JENNETT:** I suppose the question is, what is the take-up rate expected to
be within the eligibility pool – which is very large, almost 12 million – did
you do any modelling in coming up with the $3.5 billion cost over 5 years – it
looks like you might have – on the number of people, the number of doctors who
will respond?

**BUTLER:** I think just go to the College of GP’s response and that will give
you a sense of really how important they think this is. The College had been
calling for tripling of the bulk billing incentive for some time, it was
raised in the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce that I chaired directly last
year. And as I say, it's a very big increase to the total amount GPs will now
receive for a standard bulk billed GP visit. An increase of more than a third
in the cities, and by about half, really. So, it is going to really shift the
dial.

**JENNETT:** And can you say, or have you set some overall national benchmark
target in order to measure the success of this for bulk billing of all forms
of consultation nationally?

**BUTLER:** There's never been any national target for bulk billing.
Obviously, the incentive scheme that was actually put in place by the Howard
Government some time ago, frankly, isn’t attractive enough yet right now
anymore. It has always targeted children, always targeted pensioners and
concession cardholders, seniors' health cardholders as the population most in
need of access for bulk billing visits. And this will be, as the College said,
a game-changer for all those parents who want confidence that when their kids
get sick, they can access a bulk billed visit and for pensioners who really
need the same level of access to bulk billing. Now...

**JENNETT:** Even if there’s not a national target that you’re working
towards, the rebates rise by higher amounts in regional areas. Were those
variable rates set in accordance with current or currently low bulk billing
rates, or were they just mapped according to an old formula?

**BUTLER:** The differences between different parts of the country – there’s 7
categories of the country, the major cities obviously being the biggest
category, out to very remote parts of the country, Thursday Island and the
Torres Strait. I talked about Longreach today in Question Time in far west
Queensland, the most remote. And there has always been a formula that
differentiates between those 7, and we followed that formula again last night.

**JENNETT:** There will be a lot of Australians who aren’t eligible. How will
delivering this cost-of-living relief to a targeted group of patients help
families, particularly with children?

**BUTLER:** As I said, it is a targeted group, but it's a large target and
it’s a group that accounts for more than 60% of activity in most general
practices. In some parts of the country, like my electorate, for example,
which is relatively older than the national average, it's much more than 60%
of GP activities. So, this big injection of funds into general practice, if
they choose to take up bulk billing of those patients, is going to be a big
financial injection to their practice, generally. And I know what we've seen,
because we've heard this from general practices, is effectively because they
wanted to keep bulk billing children, keep bulk billing pensioners, there's
been an element of cross subsidisation in the gap fees that general patients
have been paying to allow doctors to continue to offer those bulk billing
services, in spite of the fact they've effectively been making a loss because
the rebate has been too low.

**JENNETT:** But there’s nothing in this mechanism that requires them to
continue that cross subsidisation given that their in a stronger position
because of it.

**BUTLER:** We don't run doctors’ surgeries, never have, haven't since the
1940s because of the provision put in the Constitution back then. But I know
doctors want to do the best thing by their patients. They been really squeezed
over the last decade. I mean, 6 years of the Medicare rebate freeze has put
general practice, I think, in the most parlous state it’s been in, in the
40-year history of Medicare. Which is why there was such a focus on it last
night. We went to the last election promising to make it easier and cheaper to
see a doctor. There’s more than $6 billion in new investments in strengthening
Medicare last night. As well as a $1.5 billion boost to indexation, which will
mean that next year there is the biggest increase across the board, beyond
these bulk billing incentives, the biggest increase across the board to
Medicare rebates since Paul Keating was Prime Minister.

**JENNETT:** A quick final one in your portfolio on aged care, there was a
temporary reduction in the number of residential aged care places, saves more
than $2 billion over three years. What’s the reason?

**BUTLER:** A really big difference between our government and the former
government is when the former government changed funding to aged care, they
took it out of the system entirely. What we are doing now is recognising there
is a whole lot of unused residential care places. Now, people aren't going
into residential care in the same numbers as they were 5 years ago for a range
of reasons, partly COVID, frankly, but also because people want to stay at
home longer, and they want to access home care. So, we decided to make a very
rational, sensible decision to reallocate those funds into other areas of the
health and aged care system. We’re not cutting the Budget – which is what
Scott Morrison did – and returning it to other areas. We are reinvesting it in
new areas of aged care like 9,500 new home care packages which will come into
the system on 1 July.

**JENNETT:** Sure. Thanks for clearing that up. Mark Butler, always good to
talk. Thanks for joining us today.

**BUTLER:** Thanks Greg.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

