Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Health alerts](/health-alerts)
  3. [Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19)
  4. [Coronavirus (COVID-19) advice for the health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)

[For health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-
covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)

# Providing health care remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic

To protect patients and healthcare providers from COVID-19 transmission, we
have expanded telehealth services, fast-tracked electronic prescribing, and
supported home delivery of medicines to vulnerable people. This allows health
professionals to provide care remotely.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Providing health care remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic&url=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-health-care-remotely-during-the-covid-19-pandemic)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-health-care-remotely-during-the-covid-19-pandemic)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Providing health care remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic&body=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-health-care-remotely-during-the-covid-19-pandemic)

Loading...

On this page

## ****Telehealth services****

[Telehealth](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health/about/telehealth) has played a critical role in ensuring the
continuity of care for hundreds of thousands of Australian patients during the
COVID-19 pandemic. It has offered greater flexibility to health care, while
supporting universal Medicare access.

As part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we expanded Australians’
access to telehealth in March 2020 to reduce the risk of community
transmission. We did this through temporary MBS telehealth items.

As of 1 January 2022, MBS Telehealth arrangements have become ongoing. The
permanent arrangements will:

  * provide for a wide range of telephone and video services for general practitioners (GPs) and consultant physicians
  * support safe and equitable telehealth services which are informed by the [MBS Review Taskforce Principles](/resources/collections/mbs-review-final-taskforce-reports-findings-and-recommendations "MBS Review – Final taskforce reports, findings and recommendations").

Building on the pandemic response, more than 200 telehealth services have been
made permanently available. These changes mean MBS video and telephone
services are available nationally from GPs, medical specialists, and other
health professionals.

From 19 July 2022, new temporary telehealth items have been introduced that
provide for longer phone consultations for patients who have received a
positive COVID-19 test (RAT or PCR). Medicare benefits will recognise when a
longer medical assessment by phone is required to assess whether antivirals
should be prescribed, equivalent to face-to-face and video services of the
same duration.

Millions of Australians are now eligible to access antivirals on the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS), but they need to start taking the
medication within five days of symptoms.

Following a COVID-19 positive diagnosis, eligible people can have a telephone
or video consultation with a doctor to obtain a prescription for antivirals.

Patients who have a confirmed case of COVID-19 and are subject to self-
isolation requirements can access telehealth from any GP, including for
assessment of their suitability for oral antiviral medications.

The items will remain on the MBS until 31 December 2022.

For more information on new MBS items, see [MBS
Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/).

### ****Who can receive telehealth services****

[Telehealth services](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-
health/about/telehealth "Telehealth") are available nationally.

To be eligible for GP telehealth services patients must have had a face-to-
face consultation with their GP or another GP in the same practice, in the 12
months before the telehealth service. There are some limited exceptions,
including patients who are subject to isolation or quarantine due to state or
territory COVID-19 public health orders.

### ****Who can provide telehealth services****

A range of healthcare providers can deliver telehealth services to patients.
These include:

  * general practitioners (GPs)
  * specialists and consultant physicians
  * allied health providers
  * mental health professionals
  * nurse practitioners.

MBS Online lists the [types of health care professionals and
services](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Factsheet-
TempBB) for which there are Medicare rebates.

## **Electronic prescribing**

We fast-tracked [electronic prescribing](/our-work/electronic-prescribing
"Electronic prescribing") as part of our pandemic response. These systems are
now in place in many practices and pharmacies across Australia.

See the Australian Digital Health Agency for information about [electronic
prescribing for healthcare
providers](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/healthcare-providers/initiatives-
and-programs/electronic-prescribing).

We introduced image-based prescribing at the start of the pandemic, while
electronic prescribing systems were being developed.

Image-based prescriptions (a photo of a paper prescription) will no longer be
legal in all settings after **31 March 2023**. Prescriptions with repeats
written before then will continue to be honoured until the prescription runs
out or expires.

## ****Home delivery for medicines****

The COVID-19 Home Medicines Service ended on **30 June 2022**. The temporary
measure enabled eligible Australians to have their Pharmaceutical Benefits
Scheme and Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme medicines home
delivered.

For information, see the [data for the COVID-19 Home Medicines
Service](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/covid-19-home-
medicines-service-data).

Last updated:

27 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Coronavirus (COVID-19)](/health-alerts/covid-19)

  * [About the pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19/about)
  * [Case numbers](/health-alerts/covid-19/case-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Symptoms](/health-alerts/covid-19/symptoms)
  * [Protect yourself and others](/health-alerts/covid-19/protect-yourself-and-others)
  * [COVID-19 treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/about)
  * [Testing](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing)
  * [Testing positive, and close contacts](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing-positive)
  * [Domestic travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/domestic-travel)
  * [International travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/international-travel)
  * [Physical, mental and financial support](/health-alerts/covid-19/support)
  * [Advice for groups at greater risk](/health-alerts/covid-19/advice-for-groups-at-risk)
  * [For aged care sector](/topics/aged-care/advice-on-aged-care-during-covid-19)
  * [For health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)
    * [Working arrangements](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/working-arrangements-for-high-risk-settings-during-covid-19)
    * [Hygiene and cleaning](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/hygiene-and-cleaning-for-the-health-workforce-during-covid-19)
    * [Personal protective equipment (PPE)](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/personal-protective-equipment-ppe-for-the-health-workforce-during-covid-19)
    * [Mental health](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/mental-health-for-the-health-workforce-during-covid-19)
    * [Providing health care face to face](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-health-care-face-to-face-during-covid-19)
    * [Providing health care remotely](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-health-care-remotely-during-the-covid-19-pandemic)
    * [Providing disability support services](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/providing-disability-support-services-during-covid-19)
    * [Webinars](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector/webinars-on-the-coronavirus-covid-19-response-for-the-health-aged-care-and-disability-sectors)
  * [Government response](/health-alerts/covid-19/government-response)
  * [Translated information](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

