Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  4. [When to get vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated)

[When to get vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated)

# National Immunisation Program Schedule

The National Immunisation Program (NIP) Schedule is a series of immunisations
given at specific times throughout your life. The immunisations range from
birth through to adulthood.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=National Immunisation Program Schedule&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=National Immunisation Program Schedule&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule)

Loading...

On this page

## About the National Immunisation Schedule

The National Immunisation Program (NIP) Schedule is a series of immunisations
given at specific times throughout your life. The immunisations range from
birth through to adulthood.

All vaccines listed in the NIP Schedule are free. Eligibility for free
vaccines under the NIP is linked to [eligibility for Medicare
benefits](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-enrol-
and-get-started-medicare/enrolling-medicare#whocan).

To get the best possible protection, make sure you have your immunisations on
time, every time. The NIP Schedule below shows which vaccines you should get
and when.

[ ![National Immunisation Program
schedule](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2023-03/national-
immunisation-program-schedule.png?itok=R2Vio_Hm)
](/resources/publications/national-immunisation-program-schedule)

###  [National Immunisation Program schedule
](/resources/publications/national-immunisation-program-schedule?language=en)

This schedule card provides recommended vaccines and schedule points under the
National Immunisation Program from 6 February 2023

## Catch up immunisations

Eligible people can get catch-up vaccines for free up to age 20, except for
the HPV vaccine which is available free up to and including age 25.

The number and range of vaccines and doses that are eligible for NIP funded
catch-up is different for people aged less than 10 years and those aged 10–19
years. Read more about [NIP catch-up
immunisations](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-
professionals/catch-up-immunisations "Catch-up immunisations").

Refugees and humanitarian entrants of any age are eligible for free catch-up
vaccines.

## State and territory immunisation schedules

State and territory health departments also fund some additional vaccines. It
is important to also check the immunisation schedule for your area.

  * [ACT schedule](http://www.health.act.gov.au/our-services/immunisation/forms-and-information)
  * [NSW schedule](http://www.health.nsw.gov.au/immunisation/Pages/default.aspx)
  * [NT childhood schedule](https://nt.gov.au/wellbeing/healthy-living/immunisation/child-vaccinations), [NT adults and special groups schedule](http://digitallibrary.health.nt.gov.au/prodjspui/handle/10137/775)
  * [QLD schedule](https://www.health.qld.gov.au/clinical-practice/guidelines-procedures/diseases-infection/immunisation/schedule)
  * [SA schedule](https://www.sahealth.sa.gov.au/wps/wcm/connect/public+content/sa+health+internet/conditions/immunisation/vaccines/vaccines)
  * [TAS schedule](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/vaccinations-and-boosters/adult-and-child-immunisation-schedule), [TAS flu schedule](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/health-topics/flu-influenza/flu-vaccinations)
  * [VIC schedule](https://www.health.vic.gov.au/immunisation/immunisation-schedule-victoria-and-vaccine-eligibility-criteria)
  * [WA adult schedule](http://healthywa.wa.gov.au/Articles/A_E/Adult-immunisation-schedule), [WA childhood schedule](http://healthywa.wa.gov.au/Articles/A_E/Childhood-immunisation-schedule)

## International immunisation schedules

The [World Health Organization
(WHO)](http://apps.who.int/immunization_monitoring/globalsummary) provides
information on worldwide immunisation schedules. Visit the website and select
the country of interest to view:

  * a profile for that country
  * the relevant immunisation schedule
  * information on disease surveillance
  * vaccine coverage.

## Next steps

  * Find out about [vaccines](/topics/immunisation/vaccines "Vaccines") for each disease, including the possible side effects of different vaccines.
  * Find out information about [getting vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated "Getting vaccinated").
  * Find out about [immunisation](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation "About immunisation") – how immunisation works and why it's important.
  * Find out more about NIP vaccines for children aged up to 4 years on the [Sharing Knowledge About Immunisation (SKAI) website for parents](http://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/).

Last updated:

27 February 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

  * [About immunisation](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation)
  * [When to get vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated)
    * [National Immunisation Program Schedule](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule)
    * [Immunisation for pregnancy](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-pregnancy)
    * [Immunisation for infants and children](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-infants-and-children)
    * [Immunisation for adolescents](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-adolescents)
    * [Immunisation for adults and seniors](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-adults)
    * [Immunisation for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-people)
    * [Immunisation for people with medical risk conditions](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-people-with-medical-risk-conditions)
    * [Immunisations for family assistance benefits and early childhood services](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisations-for-access-to-family-assistance-benefits-and-early-childhood-services)
    * [Immunisation for work](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-work)
    * [Immunisation for travel](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-travel)
  * [Vaccines](/topics/immunisation/vaccines)
  * [Getting vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated)
  * [For health professionals](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals)
  * [Immunisation data](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-data)
  * [News](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

