Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# PHI circulars

Read the latest private health insurance circulars for updates on matters
affecting private health insurers.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=PHI circulars&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/phi-circulars)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/phi-circulars)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=PHI circulars&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/phi-circulars)

Loading...

Older circulars are also available through Trove, [from
2002-2009](https://webarchive.nla.gov.au/awa/20100306155249/http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
phicirculars2009-index1) and [from
2010-2018](https://webarchive.nla.gov.au/awa/20201112224811/https:/www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
privatehealth-providers-circulars.htm).

###  Filter results

You can narrow down the results using the filters

## PHI circular type

[Hospital announcement (196) ](/news/phi-
circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_phi_circular_type%3AHospital%20announcement)

[PHI announcement (103) ](/news/phi-
circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_phi_circular_type%3APHI%20announcement)

[Prostheses announcement (84) ](/news/phi-
circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_phi_circular_type%3AProstheses%20announcement)

## Year

[2023 (34) ](/news/phi-circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_last_updated%3A2023)

[2022 (129) ](/news/phi-circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_last_updated%3A2022)

[2021 (93) ](/news/phi-circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_last_updated%3A2021)

[2020 (69) ](/news/phi-circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_last_updated%3A2020)

[2019 (58) ](/news/phi-circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_last_updated%3A2019)

## Health topics

[Health data and medical research (1) ](/news/phi-
circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_related_health_topics%3AHealth%20data%20and%20medical%20research)

[Medical devices (53) ](/news/phi-
circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_related_health_topics%3AMedical%20devices)

[Private health insurance (382) ](/news/phi-
circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_related_health_topics%3APrivate%20health%20insurance)

## Audience

[General public (4) ](/news/phi-
circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_audience%3AGeneral%20public)

[Health sector (379) ](/news/phi-
circulars?f%5B0%5D=h_audience%3AHealth%20sector)

383 results

Search

  * ### [PHI 32/23 Second-tier Updates  ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-3223-second-tier-updates?language=en)

24 May 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Hospital update and second-tier benefits eligibility announcement.

  * ### [PHI 31/23 Prostheses List Compliance Strategy ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-3123-prostheses-list-compliance-strategy?language=en)

18 May 2023

PHI circular

PHI announcement

Release of the finalised Prostheses List Compliance Strategy and stakeholder
feedback report.

  * ### [PHI 30/23 Consultation on two draft Cost Recovery Implementation Statements (CRIS) – 1 July 2023 to 30 June 2024 ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-3023-consultation-on-two-draft-cost-recovery-implementation-statements-cris-1-july-2023-to-30-june-2024?language=en)

11 May 2023

PHI circular

Prostheses announcement

For administration of the Prescribed List of Benefits for Medical Devices and
Human Tissue Products and the National Joint Replacement Registry

  * ### [PHI 29/23 Benefit reductions to Cardiac Implantable Electronic Devices ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2923-benefit-reductions-to-cardiac-implantable-electronic-devices?language=en)

10 May 2023

PHI circular

Prostheses announcement

Cardiac electronic implantable devices on the Prostheses List will have a
proportion of their benefits reduced by 40% of the gap on 1 July 2023

  * ### [PHI 28/23 Supplementary advice on bundling arrangements for General Use Items ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2823-supplementary-advice-on-bundling-arrangements-for-general-use-items?language=en)

5 May 2023

PHI circular

Prostheses announcement

Release of the Independent Health and Aged Care Pricing Authority (IHACPA)’s
supplementary advice on bundling arrangements for General Use Items.

  * ### [PHI 27/23 Private hospital declaration  ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2723-private-hospital-declaration?language=en)

4 May 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Notice of new private hospital declaration and second-tier categorisation.

  * ### [PHI 26/23 Private hospital revocations ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2623-private-hospital-revocations?language=en)

21 April 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Notice of new private hospital declaration and second-tier categorisation.

  * ### [PHI 25/23 Private hospital declaration ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2523-private-hospital-declaration?language=en)

20 April 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Notice of new private hospital declaration and second-tier categorisation

  * ### [PHI 24/23 Private Health Insurance Legislation Amendment Rules (No. 2) 2023 ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2423-private-health-insurance-legislation-amendment-rules-no-2-2023?language=en)

19 April 2023

PHI circular

PHI announcement

Private health insurance clinical category and procedure type updates
following Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) item changes from 1 March 2023.

  * ### [PHI 23/23 Second-tier Updates  ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2323-second-tier-updates?language=en)

6 April 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Hospital update and second-tier benefits eligibility announcement.

  * ### [PHI 22/23 Prostheses List – Incoming changes to Part C and other changes ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2223-prostheses-list-incoming-changes-to-part-c-and-other-changes?language=en)

31 March 2023

PHI circular

Prostheses announcement

This circular provides information for stakeholders about incoming changes to
Part C of the Prostheses List concerning cardiac and vascular drug eluting
balloon catheters, and deletion of 3 billing codes for human tissue items from
Part B.

  * ### [PHI 21/23 Public hospital declaration ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2123-public-hospital-declaration?language=en)

30 March 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Notice of new private hospital declaration and second-tier categorisation.

  * ### [PHI 20/23 Private hospital declaration  ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-2023-private-hospital-declaration?language=en)

22 March 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Notice of new private hospital declaration and second-tier categorisation

  * ### [PHI 19/23 Consultation on proposed legislation for listing criteria and cost recovery arrangements ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1923-consultation-on-proposed-legislation-for-listing-criteria-and-cost-recovery-arrangements?language=en)

20 March 2023

PHI circular

Prostheses announcement

We have commenced consultation on the proposed legislation for listing
criteria and cost recovery arrangements.

  * ### [PHI 18/23 Hospital and second-tier updates ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1823-hospital-and-second-tier-updates?language=en)

17 March 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Hospital update and second-tier benefits eligibility announcement.

  * ### [PHI 17/23 Private hospital declaration ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1723-private-hospital-declaration?language=en)

6 March 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Notice of new private hospital declaration and second-tier categorisation

  * ### [PHI 16/23 Private Health Insurance Legislation Amendment Rules (No. 1) 2023 ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1623-private-health-insurance-legislation-amendment-rules-no-1-2023?language=en)

28 February 2023

PHI circular

PHI announcement

Private health insurance clinical category and procedure type updates
following Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) item changes from 1 March 2023.

  * ### [PHI 15/23 Private hospital declaration  ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1523-private-hospital-declaration?language=en)

27 February 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Notice of new private hospital declaration and second-tier categorisation.

  * ### [PHI 14/23 Hospital and second-tier updates  ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1423-hospital-and-second-tier-updates?language=en)

17 February 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Notice of new or amended hospital and second-tier default benefit eligibility

  * ### [PHI 13/23 – Private Health Insurance (Prostheses) Rules (No. 1) 2023 ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1323-private-health-insurance-prostheses-rules-no-1-2023?language=en)

16 February 2023

PHI circular

Prostheses announcement

The Private Health Insurance (Prostheses) Rules (No. 1) 2023 will commence on
1 March 2023.

  * ### [PHI 12/23 – Release of consultation paper stakeholder feedback report ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1223-release-of-consultation-paper-stakeholder-feedback-report?language=en)

13 February 2023

PHI circular

Prostheses announcement

Release of the Prostheses List reform consultation paper 4(a) and 4(b) –
Stakeholder feedback report.

  * ### [PHI 11/23 – Release of bundling tool and consultation paper for General Use Items ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1123-release-of-bundling-tool-and-consultation-paper-for-general-use-items?language=en)

13 February 2023

PHI circular

Prostheses announcement

IHACPA bundling tool and Consultation Paper No. 5 on bundling arrangements for
general use items are now available to stakeholders.

  * ### [PHI 10/23 Private health insurance rebate adjustment factor effective 1 April 2023. ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-1023-private-health-insurance-rebate-adjustment-factor-effective-1-april-2023?language=en)

7 February 2023

PHI circular

PHI announcement

Announcement of the 2023 rebate adjustment factor (RAF) and private health
insurance rebate amounts effective from 1 April 2023.

  * ### [PHI 09/23 2022 Private Health Insurance Premium Round Announcement ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-0923-2022-private-health-insurance-premium-round-announcement?language=en)

6 February 2023

PHI circular

PHI announcement

This circular provides information on the Private Health Insurance Premium
Round Announcement by the Minister for Health and Aged Care, the Hon Mark
Butler MP.

  * ### [PHI 08/23 Private hospital declaration  ](/news/phi-circulars/phi-0823-private-hospital-declaration?language=en)

2 February 2023

PHI circular

Hospital announcement

Notice of new private hospital declaration and second-tier categorisation

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Page 3 ](?page=2 "Go to page 3")
  * [ Page 4 ](?page=3 "Go to page 4")
  * [ Page 5 ](?page=4 "Go to page 5")
  * [ Page 6 ](?page=5 "Go to page 6")
  * [ Page 7 ](?page=6 "Go to page 7")
  * [ Page 8 ](?page=7 "Go to page 8")
  * [ Page 9 ](?page=8 "Go to page 9")
  * …
  * [ Next page Next › ](?page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?page=15 "Go to last page")

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

