Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)
  4. [What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)

[What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-
private-health-insurance-covers)

# Hospital cover and product tiers

Hospital cover helps with the costs of treatment as a private patient in
hospital. If you have private hospital cover, you can choose to be treated as
a private patient in a public hospital, private hospital or day hospital
facility.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Hospital cover and product tiers&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/hospital-cover-and-product-tiers)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/hospital-cover-and-product-tiers)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Hospital cover and product tiers&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/hospital-cover-and-product-tiers)

Loading...

On this page

## **Hospital services**

Depending on the hospital cover you take out, private health insurance covers
some or all of:

  * hospital accommodation costs (including meals)
  * theatre costs

## **In-hospital doctor and specialist services**

Depending on the hospital cover you take out, private health insurance covers
some or all of the medical services that
[Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/medicare) covers.

See the list of [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)
services](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home),
which includes an MBS fee for each service.

Medicare covers 75% of the MBS fee and private health insurance covers at
least 25%.

If your doctor or specialist charges more than the MBS fee for their service,
you may have to pay the extra out of your own pocket. Find out how much you
can expect to pay by using the [Medical Costs Finder](/resources/apps-and-
tools/medical-costs-finder "Medical Costs Finder").

## Second-tier default benefits for private hospital patients

If you are treated in a hospital that does not have an agreement with your
insurer but which we have assessed as second-tier default benefits eligible,
you will still receive a benefit from your insurer.

Learn more about [second-tier default benefits](/node/8984#secondtier-default-
benefits-for-private-hospital-patients).

## **Restrictions and exclusions**

### **Restrictions**

Restrictions are services that a plan **partly** covers.

For example, if your policy restricts hip replacement:

  * you’re covered as a private patient in a **public** hospital
  * you’re **partly** covered as a private patient in a **private** hospital — this means your health insurer will only pay a small part of your hospital accommodation fees and you’ll have to pay for all other costs

### **Exclusions**

Exclusions are services that a policy doesn’t **** cover. This means your
health insurer will not pay for any of the costs of the service.

For example, some policies don’t cover services like:

  * heart surgery
  * knee and hip replacements
  * cataract surgery
  * pregnancy and birth-related services

See the [Commonwealth Ombudsman’s guidance on policy exclusions and
restrictions](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications/brochures-and-fact-
sheets/factsheets/all-fact-sheets/phio/policy-exclusions-and-restrictions).

## **Private patients’ hospital charter**

Learn more about what you should know about treatment costs and your rights
and responsibilities in the [Private patients’ hospital
charter](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/private-patients-
hospital-charter).

## **Private health insurance product tiers – Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic
cover**

From April 2020, all hospital insurance products must be classified as one of
four tiers:

  * Gold
  * Silver
  * Bronze
  * Basic

Your insurer will assign existing policies to a tier based on the level of
cover it provides. They will let you know what tier your policy is.

### **How product tiers work**

We’ve grouped standardised hospital treatments into [clinical
categories.](/resources/collections/private-health-insurance-clinical-
category-and-procedure-type "Private health insurance clinical category and
procedure type")

A policy is assigned a tier based on the minimum level of cover it offers
against these clinical categories.

If your insurer offers a policy that provides cover above the minimum
requirements of a tier they can promote the policy as Basic Plus (+), Bronze
Plus (+) or Silver Plus (+).

View our [product tiers fact sheet](/resources/publications/private-health-
insurance-reforms-gold-silver-bronze-basic-product-tiers-campaign-fact-sheet
"Private health insurance reforms – Gold, Silver, Bronze, Basic product tiers
– campaign fact sheet") for a table showing the cover each tier must provide
for each clinical category.

Find out more about [product
tiers](https://www.privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/howitworks/producttiers.htm)
on the Private Health website.

We will soon start a review of the product tiers to make sure they are working
as planned.

Last updated:

17 February 2022

Tags:

  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

  * [About private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance)
  * [What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)
    * [Hospital cover and product tiers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/hospital-cover-and-product-tiers)
    * [Extras and ambulance cover](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/extras-and-ambulance-cover)
    * [Prostheses cover under private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/prostheses-cover-under-private-health-insurance)
    * [Waiting periods and exemptions](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/waiting-periods-and-exemptions)
    * [Out of pocket costs](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/out-of-pocket-costs)
  * [Private health insurance reforms](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)
  * [Operating rules](/topics/private-health-insurance/operating-rules-for-private-health-insurers-and-providers)
  * [The Prostheses List](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list)
  * [News](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

