Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  4. [What we’re doing about chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)

[What we’re doing about chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-
were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)

# What we’re doing about endometriosis

Endometriosis is a painful chronic condition. In Australia it affects at least
one in 9 girls and women and those assigned female at birth. Symptoms include
pain in the stomach, back and hip areas that can affect quality of life. Find
out what we’re doing to help those living with endometriosis.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we’re doing about endometriosis&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-endometriosis)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-endometriosis)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we’re doing about endometriosis&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-endometriosis)

Loading...

On this page

## About endometriosis

Endometriosis is a chronic condition that can be hard to diagnose and painful.
Endometriosis occurs when some of the tissue similar to the lining of the
uterus (womb), called the endometrium, grows outside of the uterus.

Some symptoms of endometriosis can include:

  * abdominal pain
  * heavy periods
  * bleeding from the bladder or bowel
  * feeling bloated
  * tiredness
  * anxiety or depression related to the pain
  * infertility

Endometriosis is a progressive, chronic condition that can start at puberty
and continue through to old age. It can be painful and debilitating but there
are effective treatments that may relieve the symptoms of endometriosis. For
more information on tips to self-manage the symptoms of endometriosis, visit
[Endozone](https://www.endozone.com.au/), developed through funding
contributions from the government.

For more information about endometriosis see
[healthdirect](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/endometriosis).

## What we are doing about endometriosis

We are addressing endometriosis at a national level via our [National Action
Plan for Endometriosis](/resources/publications/national-action-plan-for-
endometriosis "National Action Plan for Endometriosis").

Since the release of the National Action Plan for Endometriosis in July 2018
$87.19 million has been committed for:

  * Awareness and education – $8.57 million
  * Clinical management and care – $49.65 million
  * Research – $28.97 million.

Further information on funded activities are provided for in the
[Endometriosis Progress Report 2023
update](/resources/publications/endometriosis-progress-report-2023
"Endometriosis Progress Report 2023").

Other programs and initiatives that support endometriosis treatment include
the:

  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/), which helps pay for patient care
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](http://www.pbs.gov.au/), which helps pay for medicines
  * [Medical Research Future Fund](https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medical-research-future-fund/mrff-grant-opportunities-calendar) and [National Health and Medical Research Council](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/), which fund endometriosis research.

See more [chronic conditions resources](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-
conditions-resources "Chronic conditions resources").

Last updated:

15 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Reproductive health](/topics/reproductive-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

  * [About chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/about-chronic-conditions)
  * [Chronic conditions in Australia](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-in-australia)
  * [What we’re doing about chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)
    * [Cardiovascular conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-cardiovascular-conditions)
    * [Chronic eye conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-eye-conditions)
    * [Diabetes](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-diabetes)
    * [Endometriosis](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-endometriosis)
    * [Kidney disease](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-kidney-disease)
    * [Lung and respiratory conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-lung-and-respiratory-conditions)
    * [Musculoskeletal conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-musculoskeletal-conditions)
    * [Neurological conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-neurological-conditions)
    * [Rare diseases](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-rare-diseases)
    * [Other chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-other-chronic-conditions)
  * [Managing chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/managing-chronic-conditions)
  * [News](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

