Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)
  4. [What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)

[What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-
private-health-insurance-covers)

# Prostheses cover under private health insurance

Private health insurers are required to pay benefits for products listed on
the Prostheses List, if the product is provided to the patient with the right
cover as part of hospital or hospital substitute treatment. Read more about
what products are listed and benefits.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Prostheses cover under private health insurance&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/prostheses-cover-under-private-health-insurance)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/prostheses-cover-under-private-health-insurance)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Prostheses cover under private health insurance&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/prostheses-cover-under-private-health-insurance)

Loading...

On this page

## Prostheses list

The Private Health Insurance (Prostheses) Rules is a legislative instrument
made under the Private Health Insurance Act 2007. Schedule of the Private
Health Insurance (Prostheses) Rules is known as the Prostheses List.

Private health insurer are required to pay a benefit for a product if:

  * the product is listed on the Prostheses List
  * you receive the product as part of the hospital or hospital substitute treatment
  * you have appropriate health insurance to cover the treatment
  * a Medicare benefit is payable for a service associated with the use of the product.

The Prostheses List shows the minimum benefits insurers are required to pay
for listed products.

We publish the [Prostheses List](/resources/publications/prostheses-list
"Prostheses List") minimum 3 times per year.

## What products are listed

Products currently listed on the Prostheses List include surgically implanted
medical devices, devices designed and essential for implantation or for
maintaining the implant, human tissue items and other specified devices.

There are more than 11,000 products listed on the Prostheses List, including:

  * hip, knee or shoulder joint replacement devices
  * cardiac implantable electronic devices, like pacemakers and implantable cardioverter defibrillators
  * vascular and cardiac stents
  * human tissue items like bone or bone fragments, vascular grafts, corneas and heart valves
  * insulin infusion pumps
  * cardiac ablation catheters
  * cardiac remote monitoring systems.

## What products are not listed

Products not eligible to be listed on the Prostheses List include:

  * external prostheses, like prosthetic limbs or external breast prostheses
  * surgically implanted devices, not purposely designed for replacing an anatomical body part, or combat a pathological or modulate a physiological process, such as some cosmetic implants
  * devices intended to be used for diagnostic purposes.

## Out of pocket costs for products listed on the Prostheses List

If you have an appropriate cover, and the product listed on the Prostheses
List was provided to you, or used during procedure, or implanted into your
body as part of your hospital treatment, you should not have any out of pocket
costs.

But if the minimum benefit set up on the Prostheses List is less than the cost
of the product, you might have to pay the difference.

Before you have your treatment, discuss the cost and your cover with:

  * your health insurer
  * your treating doctor
  * the hospital you will be treated at.

Read more about [out of pocket costs](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-
private-health-insurance-covers/out-of-pocket-costs "Out of pocket costs").

## The Prostheses List for insurers and others

Private hospitals and health insurers use the Prostheses List to keep their
claims and payments systems up to date.

For updates on prostheses reforms and other matters related to private health
insurance see our [private health insurance
circulars](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
privatehealth-providers-circulars.htm).

### Prostheses List reforms

As part of wider reforms, the Australian Government and the Medical Technology
Association of Australia agreed to consider changes to the Prostheses List
arrangements to support better access to medical technology.

Learn more about [Prostheses List reviews and reforms](/topics/private-health-
insurance/the-prostheses-list/the-prostheses-list-reforms "The Prostheses List
reforms").

Considering the impact of COVID-19, the Minister for Health, the Hon Greg Hunt
MP, has agreed to pause all Prostheses List reviews and all reform work under
the Strategic Agreement with Medical Technology Association of Australia,
starting from 1 April 2020.

### How to list a product on the Prostheses List

If you have products that meet the criteria, you can apply to [list or change
products on the Prostheses List](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-
prostheses-list "The Prostheses List").

Last updated:

22 October 2020

Tags:

  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

  * [About private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance)
  * [What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)
    * [Hospital cover and product tiers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/hospital-cover-and-product-tiers)
    * [Extras and ambulance cover](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/extras-and-ambulance-cover)
    * [Prostheses cover under private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/prostheses-cover-under-private-health-insurance)
    * [Waiting periods and exemptions](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/waiting-periods-and-exemptions)
    * [Out of pocket costs](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/out-of-pocket-costs)
  * [Private health insurance reforms](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)
  * [Operating rules](/topics/private-health-insurance/operating-rules-for-private-health-insurers-and-providers)
  * [The Prostheses List](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list)
  * [News](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

