Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

This content relates to a former minister

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)

[Ministers](/ministers)

# More support for Australians with eating disorders

The Australian Government is investing an additional $24.3 million through the
2022-23 Budget to implement new community-based treatment services and fund
existing support and treatment services for Australians with an eating
disorder.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=More support for Australians with eating disorders&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-david-coleman-mp/media/more-support-for-australians-with-eating-disorders)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-david-coleman-mp/media/more-support-for-australians-with-eating-disorders)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=More support for Australians with eating disorders&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-david-coleman-mp/media/more-support-for-australians-with-eating-disorders)

Loading...

**​The Hon David Coleman MP**  
Former Assistant Minister to the Prime Minister for Mental Health and Suicide
Prevention​

Media event date:

31 March 2022

Date published:

31 March 2022

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The Morrison Government is investing an additional $24.3 million through the
2022-23 Budget to implement new community-based treatment services and fund
existing support and treatment services for Australians with an eating
disorder.

Eating disorders are among the most complex and deadly of psychiatric
illnesses, and the Morrison Government recognises the importance of making
sure everyone can access evidence-based care when and where they need it most.

The number of people in Australia with an eating disorder at any given time is
estimated to be around one million, and almost a third (31.6%) of Australian
adolescents engage in disordered eating behaviours in any given year.

This new funding, combined with the Morrison Government’s support for
innovative new treatment and therapy approaches, will see more care available
in more places, improving the chances of recovery for those impacted.

The funding includes:

  * **$20 million** for community-based eating disorder treatment services. These services will focus on local needs, using innovative and evidence-based models of care that are free to those who access them.

  * **$1.3 million** to the Wandi Nerida residential eating disorder treatment and recovery centre on the Sunshine Coast.
  * **$1.6 million** for the National Eating Disorders Collaboration for ongoing development of clinical resources, implementation of the National Eating Disorders Strategy, support for clinical workforce development, and provision of independent, expert advice to Government.
  * **$1.1 million** for the Butterfly Foundation to continue to develop the eating disorder peer workforce, provide advice to state and territory governments on the establishment of the community-based residential eating disorder treatment centres and build on and expand the Butterfly Body Bright program in primary schools.

Assistant Minister to the Prime Minister for Mental Health and Suicide
Prevention, David Coleman, said the funding will provide more services for
more people.

“Eating disorders are extremely complex and dangerous and prolonged care is
often needed,” Assistant Minister Coleman said. “But it is possible for many
people to make a full recovery if they get the right treatment at the right
time and that’s what these new services will deliver.”

“These new services will fill current treatment gaps within the community,
ensuring more wrap around support for those who require ongoing care outside a
hospital setting.”

“The service providers of these programs will also work closely with the
National Eating Disorder Research Centre to inform important eating disorder
research and contribute to the evidence-base for future eating disorder
treatments and supports.

“As a Government, we are deeply committed to helping Australians affected by
eating disorders and body image issues, and ensuring those impacted have the
best chance of recovery.”

Since 2012-13, the Government has committed $268 million to eating disorder
initiatives, with more than $71 million in 2021-22 alone. This is up from just
$500,000 for specific eating disorder initiatives in 2012-13.

The Morrison Government is delivering a number of vital initiatives to ensure
continuity of care and access to high quality treatment and support for people
affected by eating disorders and their families and carers.

In November 2019, the Government provided $110.7 million to introduce 64 new
Medicare items for eating disorders. These items enable patients with anorexia
nervosa and other eating disorders with complex needs to access up to 40
psychological and 20 dietetic services a year.

A further investment of $63 million was provided for six new community-based
residential eating disorder treatment centres across Australia.

$26.9 million was also included in last year’s Budget to increase the
availability and quality of care options for people affected by eating
disorders, including:

  * **$1.9 million** to improve access to specific timely, high quality care for eating disorders in Australian Government funded mental health centres such as headspace and Adult Mental Health Centres;
  * **$300,000** to enable Eating Disorders Families Australia to continue operation of the "strive" program, providing mental health support for families and carers of people with eating disorders;
  * **$2.5 million** to deliver the final phase of the workforce credentialing project to ensure all Australians have access to high quality care delivered under the Medicare eating disorder items; and
  * **$13 million** to establish a National Eating Disorder Research Centre to coordinate and conduct world-leading research into eating disorders.

The funding reinforces the Morrison Government’s strong commitment to
achieving better mental health for all Australians, with expenditure on mental
health services estimated to be a record $6.8 billion in 2022-23 alone.

Anyone experiencing distress can seek immediate advice and support through
Butterfly Foundation’s ED HOPE helpline (1800 33 4673), Kids Helpline (1800 55
1800), Beyond Blue (1300 224 636), Lifeline (13 11 14), or the Government’s
digital mental health gateway, [Head to
Health](http://www.headtohealth.gov.au/).

Tags:

  * [Food and nutrition](/topics/food-and-nutrition)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

