Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with Intellectual
Disability

The Australian Government has released the National Roadmap for Improving the
Health of People with Intellectual Disability to address serious health
inequities faced by people with intellectual disability. Read about the
roadmap and plan to improve the health of people with intellectual disability.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with Intellectual Disability&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-roadmap-for-improving-the-health-of-people-with-intellectual-disability)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-roadmap-for-improving-the-health-of-people-with-intellectual-disability)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with Intellectual Disability&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-roadmap-for-improving-the-health-of-people-with-intellectual-disability)

Loading...

On this page

## About the roadmap

The National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with Intellectual
Disability aims to address serious health inequities faced by people with
intellectual disability. It outlines how we can create a health system where
people with intellectual disability are valued, respected, and have access to
high quality, timely and comprehensive health care.

[ ![National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with Intellectual
Disability](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2021/08/national-
roadmap-for-improving-the-health-of-people-with-intellectual-
disability.png?itok=JXLKqBZF) ](/resources/publications/national-roadmap-for-
improving-the-health-of-people-with-intellectual-disability)

###  [National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with Intellectual
Disability ](/resources/publications/national-roadmap-for-improving-the-
health-of-people-with-intellectual-disability?language=en)

This roadmap aims to address serious health inequities faced by people with
intellectual disability. It outlines how we can create a health system where
people with intellectual disability are valued, respected and have access to
high quality, timely and comprehensive health care.

[ ![Easy Read
icon](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2022/07/national-
roadmap-for-improving-the-health-of-people-with-intellectual-disability-easy-
read.png?itok=-oZURJGi) ](/resources/publications/national-roadmap-for-
improving-the-health-of-people-with-intellectual-disability-easy-read)

###  [National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with Intellectual
Disability – Easy Read ](/resources/publications/national-roadmap-for-
improving-the-health-of-people-with-intellectual-disability-easy-
read?language=en)

This Easy Read roadmap is about how we can improve health care for people with
intellectual disability.

## Why we need a roadmap

There are about 450,000 people with intellectual disability in Australia.

Compared with the general population, people with intellectual disability
have:

  * more than twice the rate of avoidable deaths
  * twice the rate of emergency department and hospital admissions
  * substantially higher rates of physical and mental health conditions
  * significantly lower rates of preventive healthcare.

People with intellectual disability deserve access to high quality health care
that meets their needs and supports them to lead healthy and active lives.

## **Goals of the roadmap**

The roadmap aims to:

  * improve support for people with intellectual disability, their families and carers
  * develop better models of care for people with intellectual disability
  * support health professionals to deliver quality care for people with intellectual disability
  * improve the oral health of people with intellectual disability
  * improve monitoring of the health of people with intellectual disability
  * ensure that emergency plans and responses meet the needs of people with intellectual disability.

## **Collaborative development and action**

The roadmap has been informed by detailed consultations with stakeholders,
including people with intellectual disability, family members and other
carers. It includes many of the recommendations and proposed actions they put
forward.

This is a collaborative approach to address the needs of people with
intellectual disability. It will need commitment and cooperation between:

  * the Australian Government
  * state and territory governments
  * educational institutions
  * health care providers and professionals
  * other stakeholders.

It also requires engagement with people with intellectual disability, their
families and carers, and support workers.

We have set up the [Roadmap Implementation Governance Group
(RIGG)](/committees-and-groups/roadmap-implementation-governance-group-rigg
"Roadmap Implementation Governance Group \(RIGG\)") to oversee implementation
of the roadmap.

## Projects funded under the roadmap

The Australian Government is investing $43.3 million to fund the following
priorities of the roadmap:

  * [Primary Care Enhancement Program for people with intellectual disability (PCEP)](/our-work/primary-care-enhancement-program-for-people-with-intellectual-disability "Primary Care Enhancement Program for people with intellectual disability")
  * [Improving annual health assessments for people with intellectual disability](/our-work/improving-annual-health-assessments-for-people-with-intellectual-disability "Improving annual health assessments for people with intellectual disability")
  * [Curriculum development in intellectual disability health](/our-work/curriculum-development-in-intellectual-disability-health "Curriculum development in intellectual disability health")
  * [National Centre of Excellence in Intellectual Disability Health](/our-work/national-centre-of-excellence-in-intellectual-disability-health "National Centre of Excellence in Intellectual Disability Health").

## Broader reforms

The Australian Government set up the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce to
provide recommendations on the highest priority investments in primary care,
backed by the $750 million Strengthen Medicare Fund.

Building on the [Primary Care 10 Year
Plan](/resources/publications/australias-primary-health-care-10-year-
plan-2022-2032 "Australia’s Primary Health Care 10 Year Plan 2022–2032"), the
taskforce recommended options to:

  * increase access to equitable and affordable primary care
  * encourage multidisciplinary care
  * modernise primary care through data and digital reform, and
  * support organisational and cultural change in the primary care sector.

These will help improve the health and wellbeing of people with intellectual
disability.

The Taskforce provided its final report to Government in December 2022.

The roadmap will also support health and wellbeing outcomes under [Australia’s
Disability Strategy
2021-2031](https://www.ndis.gov.au/understanding/australias-disability-
strategy-2021-2031).

Last updated:

31 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

