Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Mandatory reporting of Japanese encephalitis virus vaccines to the
Australian Immunisation Register began on 21 December 2022

From 21 December 2022, vaccination providers must report all Japanese
encephalitis virus (JEV) vaccines administered to the Australian Immunisation
Register (AIR).

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Mandatory reporting of Japanese encephalitis virus vaccines to the Australian Immunisation Register began on 21 December 2022&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/mandatory-reporting-of-japanese-encephalitis-virus-vaccines-to-the-australian-immunisation-register-began-on-21-december-2022)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/mandatory-reporting-of-japanese-encephalitis-virus-vaccines-to-the-australian-immunisation-register-began-on-21-december-2022)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Mandatory reporting of Japanese encephalitis virus vaccines to the Australian Immunisation Register began on 21 December 2022&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/mandatory-reporting-of-japanese-encephalitis-virus-vaccines-to-the-australian-immunisation-register-began-on-21-december-2022)

Loading...

Date published:

13 January 2023

Type:

News

Audience:

Health sector

![Image of general
practitioner](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-01/mandatory-
reporting-of-japanese-encephalitis-virus-vaccines-to-the-australian-
immunisation-register-began-on-21-december-2022.jpg?itok=MPj3DWdL)

The [Australian Immunisation Register](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-
information-for-health-professionals/using-the-australian-immunisation-
register "Using the Australian Immunisation Register") (AIR) is a national
immunisation register which records vaccines given to all people in Australia.
This includes COVID-19 vaccines, vaccines given under the National
Immunisation Program (NIP), and vaccines given privately, such as for seasonal
influenza or travel.

Under the [_Australian Immunisation Register Act 2015_ (AIR
Act)](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00418) it is mandatory for
all vaccination providers to report to the AIR:

  * COVID-19 vaccinations administered on or after 20 February 2021
  * Influenza vaccinations administered on or after 1 March 2021
  * NIP vaccinations administered on or after 1 July 2021.

Further legislative changes mean that from 21 December 2022, vaccination
providers must report the administration of all Japanese encephalitis virus
(JEV) vaccines to the AIR.

Reporting timely, high quality and accurate information to the AIR allows us
to monitor immunisation coverage and administration across Australia. This
also provides Australians with a complete record of their vaccinations, which
can be used for education, employment, and travel purposes.

The Australian Immunisation Register Rule 2015 lists the specific vaccines,
the data elements to report, and how and when to report these. These include:

  * relevant vaccines: COVID-19, influenza, NIP and JEV vaccines.
  * how to report: electronic, or if this is not reasonably practical then in written form.
  * when to report: within 24 hours, and no more than 10 working days after the vaccination.
  * personal information: Medicare number (if applicable), name, contact details, date of birth, gender.
  * vaccine information: brand name, dose number and batch number, date given, for COVID-19 vaccines - vial serial number (if known).
  * provider information: provider number, name and contact details.

You can quickly report vaccination information via the AIR site in HPOS or
through relevant clinical software.

Health professionals should use the latest version of their clinical software
to make sure they meet reporting requirements. We will continue to work with
Services Australia to help software developers and vaccination providers meet
their reporting obligations.

The legislative changes do not make having a vaccine mandatory, only that
vaccination providers must report the administration of vaccinations to the
AIR.

## **Further information**

Learn more about [what personal information is collected in the AIR](/using-
our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-
immunisation-register "Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register
") and how this information can be used and disclosed.

Learn more about [Japanese encephalitis](/diseases/japanese-
encephalitis#vaccination "Japanese encephalitis").

## Contacts

For help with reporting to the AIR:

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-default-icon.png)

###  [ Australian Immunisation Register contact ](/contacts/australian-
immunisation-register-contact?language=en)

The Australian Immunisation Register (AIR) is a national register that records
vaccines given to people of all ages in Australia. You can request an
immunisation history statement for your child.

[air@servicesaustralia.gov.au](mailto:air@servicesaustralia.gov.au)

Australian Immunisation Register enquiries

[1800 653 809](tel:1800 653 809)

[Australian Immunisation
Register](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register)

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Immunisation registers contact ](/contacts/immunisation-registers-
contact?language=en)

Health professionals can contact us about mandatory reporting obligations for
immunisation.

[Immunisation.Registers@health.gov.au](mailto:Immunisation.Registers@health.gov.au)

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Japanese encephalitis](/diseases/japanese-encephalitis)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

