Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About us](/about-us)
  3. [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)

[Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)

# Report suspected fraud

Find out what kinds of suspected health and aged care fraud should be reported
and how to report it. Learn how we protect your privacy and investigate
reported fraud.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Report suspected fraud&url=https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Report suspected fraud&body=https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud)

Loading...

On this page

## **What fraud is**

Fraud occurs when someone acts in a dishonest or deceiving way to gain a
benefit.

The Australian Government defines it as ‘dishonestly obtaining a benefit, or
causing a loss, by deception or other means’.

## **Why report fraud**

We encourage you to [report suspected fraud](/node/5740#how-to-report-fraud).
By making a report, you can help us to keep our health and aged care system
fair for everyone. Fraud adds to the cost of programs and services that
taxpayers pay for.

Reporting suspected fraud doesn’t take long. We encourage you to provide as
much information as you can. Even a small amount of information can help.

## **Who can report fraud?**

Anyone can [report fraud](/node/5740#how-to-report-fraud). You don’t have to
give your name when making a report if you would prefer. You can remain
anonymous.

## **How we will protect your privacy**

Your personal information is protected by law, including the [Privacy Act
1988](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2004A03712). Find out more about
how we collect and use information on our [privacy page](/using-our-
websites/website-privacy-policy "Website privacy policy").

## **What fraud we investigate**

We are responsible for investigating suspected fraud or corruption by:

  * health providers
  * activities funded by the Department of Health and Aged Care, such as services, grants and other payments
  * our staff.

### **Suspected fraud by health providers**

Health providers are:

  * service providers (such as medical practices and hospitals) and their employees
  * health professionals (such as doctors, pharmacists and dentists) and their employees.

Fraud by health providers may include claiming for services or products that
weren't provided, and receiving payments that they're not entitled to.

Anyone can [report suspected fraud by health
providers](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
provider-tip-off). Any information that you can provide is valuable.

### **Suspected fraud against activities funded by the Department of Health
and Aged Care**

#### Aged care activities

We accept reports of suspected fraud relating to the aged care programs and
services we fund including:

  * care in your home, including 
    * [Home Care Packages](/our-work/home-care-packages-program "Home Care Packages Program")
    * the [Commonwealth Home Support Programme](/our-work/commonwealth-home-support-programme-chsp "Commonwealth Home Support Programme \(CHSP\)")
  * [residential care](/our-work/residential-aged-care "Residential aged care") in aged care (nursing) homes
  * [short-term care](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme "Short-Term Restorative Care \(STRC\) Programme"), including after-hospital and respite care
  * flexible care, including the 
    * [Multi-Purpose Services](/our-work/multi-purpose-services-mps-program "Multi-Purpose Services \(MPS\) Program")
    * [National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Flexible Aged Care Program](/our-work/national-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-flexible-aged-care-program "National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Flexible Aged Care Program")

You can [report suspected fraudulent
activity](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/reporting-
suspected-fraud) about anyone involved in providing or receiving services
under aged care programs including:

  * aged care providers
  * third parties delivering aged care services, including subcontractors
  * older people receiving services or their representatives.

We do not investigate concerns about the safety or quality of aged care
services. These are reported to [Aged Care Quality and Safety
Commission](https://www.agedcarequality.gov.au/making-complaint/lodge-
complaint).

#### Other funded activities

We accept reports of suspected fraud against other health programs we fund
including:

  * hearing services
  * mental health services.

We also fund activities through grants and other payments.

Fraud against these activities may include:

  * providing misleading information to receive a grant or payment
  * using Health and Aged Care funding for different purposes than it was meant for.

Anyone can [report suspected fraud against activities funded by the Department
of Health and Aged
Care](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/reporting-
suspected-fraud). Any information that you can provide is valuable.

### **Suspected fraud or corruption by our staff**

The Department of Health and Aged Care has zero tolerance to fraud or
corruption by our employees or contractors, in any area of our work.

Fraud or corruption by our staff may include:

  * seeking, giving or taking bribes
  * a serious conflict of interest
  * manipulating recruitment, procurement or grant processes
  * seeking gifts, entertainment or anything else of value from people providing goods or services to the department
  * improperly disclosing government information to benefit them or someone else.

If you suspect our employees or contractors have not acted appropriately, you
can report fraud or corruption by our staff.

If you're a current or former public official, you can also choose to make a
[public interest disclosure](/about-us/corporate-reporting/public-interest-
disclosures "Public Interest Disclosures") about suspected wrongdoing in the
department.

## **What fraud we don’t investigate**

### **Fraud by the general public**

Fraud by the general public can include claiming and receiving Medicare, child
support or welfare benefits they are not eligible for.

If you suspect a member of the public is committing these types of fraud, you
can report it to [Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-
us/reporting-fraud).

### **Unethical or unsafe behaviour by health professionals**

Unethical or unsafe behaviour by health professionals may include:

  * poor treatment, such as wrong or inadequate diagnosis or treatment
  * not giving enough information – for example, about a diagnosis or treatment
  * inappropriate behaviour or relationship, such as a sexual relationship between a doctor and patient
  * a doctor working under the influence of drugs or alcohol.

If you want to report a health professional’s unethical or unsafe behaviour,
you can make a complaint to the [Australian Health Practitioner Regulation
Agency](/contacts/australian-health-practitioner-regulation-agency "Australian
Health Practitioner Regulation Agency ").

## **How to report fraud**

You can report suspected fraud or corruption by:

  * completing our [reporting suspect fraud form](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/reporting-suspected-fraud)
  * completing our [health provider fraud tip-off form](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-provider-tip-off)
  * calling our [fraud hotline](/contacts/fraud-hotline "Fraud hotline") – 1800 829 403
  * [writing to us](/contacts/fraud-hotline "Fraud hotline").

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Fraud hotline ](/contacts/fraud-hotline?language=en)

Our hotline is open 9am to 5pm Australian Eastern Standard Time, Monday to
Friday.

Fraud hotline

[1800 829 403](tel:1800 829 403)

[Report suspected fraud
form](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/reporting-
suspected-fraud)

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Report suspected fraud against aged care programs ](/contacts/report-
suspected-fraud-against-aged-care-programs?language=en)

Contact us to report suspected fraud against our aged care programs. Our
hotline is open 9am to 5pm Australian Eastern Daylight Time (AEDT), Monday to
Friday.

[agedcarefraud@health.gov.au](mailto:agedcarefraud@health.gov.au)

[1800 829 403](tel:1800 829 403)

[Report suspected fraud
form](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/reporting-
suspected-fraud)

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Report health provider fraud against health programs
](/contacts/report-health-provider-fraud-against-health-programs?language=en)

Report suspected fraud by health providers against health programs. Our
hotline is open 9am to 5pm Australian Eastern Standard Time, Monday to Friday.

Provider Benefits Integrity Hotline

[1800 314 808](tel:1800 314 808)

[Health provider tip-off
form](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
provider-tip-off)

## How we investigate suspected fraud or corruption

We take all reports of suspected fraud and corruption seriously and
investigate when we have enough information. We:

  * treat all information securely, sensitively and confidentially

  * log and assess all reports

  * provide limited feedback for privacy and so ongoing investigations are not jeopardised
  * don’t comment on investigations into individual providers or their staff due to the secrecy provisions of the [Health Insurance Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2004A00101)
  * refer the matter to the [Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions (CDPP)](https://www.cdpp.gov.au/) and also the Australian Federal Police and State Police in some circumstances.

Last updated:

20 December 2022

Tags:

  * [About the department](/topics/about-the-department)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [About us](/about-us)

  * [The Australian health system](/about-us/the-australian-health-system)
  * [What we do](/about-us/what-we-do)
  * [Who we are](/about-us/who-we-are)
  * [Work with us](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [100 years of Health](/about-us/100-years-of-health)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
    * [Annual reports](/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports)
    * [Budgets](/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets)
    * [Corporate plan](/about-us/corporate-reporting/corporate-plan)
    * [Senate order listings](/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings)
    * [Responses to Government inquiries](/about-us/corporate-reporting/responses-to-government-inquiries)
    * [Freedom of Information (FOI)](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi)
    * [Information Publication Scheme (IPS)](/about-us/corporate-reporting/information-publication-scheme-ips)
    * [Commonwealth Child Safe Framework Compliance Statement](/about-us/corporate-reporting/commonwealth-child-safe-framework-compliance-statements)
    * [Procedures for determining breaches of the code of conduct](/about-us/corporate-reporting/procedures-for-determining-breaches-of-the-code-of-conduct)
    * [Public interest disclosure](/about-us/corporate-reporting/public-interest-disclosures)
    * [Report suspected fraud](/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

