Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Health alerts](/health-alerts)
  3. [Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19)
  4. [Treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments)

[COVID-19 treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/about)

# Oral treatments for COVID-19

Learn about oral treatments for COVID-19 and who is prioritised to receive
them.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Oral treatments for COVID-19&url=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/oral)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/oral)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Oral treatments for COVID-19&body=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/oral)

Loading...

On this page

## **Lagevrio and Paxlovid PBS listing**

Lagevrio®(molnupiravir) was listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)
on 1 March 2022 and Paxlovid® (nirmatrelvir and ritonavir) on 1 May 2022.

The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) has recommended changes
to the eligibility criteria for the oral treatments on 11 July 2022, 1
November 2022, 1 January 2023 and 1 April 2023, to provide greater access for
people who are vulnerable to severe disease.

The current eligibility criteria for Paxlovid and Lagevrio reflect the
evidence that has been submitted to the PBAC to date. The PBAC is an
independent, expert body appointed by the Government, and its members include
doctors, health professionals, health economists and consumer representatives.

For more information on the latest eligibility criteria, please see the
Paxlovid and Lagevrio factsheets at [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) |
PBS Publications](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/publications#Covid19) and the
PBAC Web Outcome
[Statements](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/industry/listing/elements/pbac-
meetings/pbac-outcomes).

To access these medications, you need a prescription from an authorised
prescriber e.g. medical practitioner or nurse practitioner.

It is encouraged that you have an early discussion with your GP or nurse
practitioner about whether an oral antiviral suits your health needs and to
develop a COVID-19 plan if you test positive to COVID-19.

## **Eligibility and access**

If you test positive for COVID-19, you may be eligible for antiviral
treatments if you are at high risk of severe disease.

For a full breakdown of clinical criteria and eligibility criteria please
visit the PBS website.

Find out more about
[Paxlovid](https://www.pbs.gov.au/medicine/item/12996B-13147Y) **.**

Find out more about
[Lagevrio](https://www.pbs.gov.au/medicine/item/12910L-13144T).

To support prompt treatment of patients, as of 1 November 2022, medical
practitioners and nurse practitioners are able to add Lagevrio and Paxlovid to
their Prescriber Bag supplies. A complete list of current prescriber bag
medicines is available at: [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) | Prescriber
Bag Supplies](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/doctorsbag).

**Find a pharmacy** with available [supply of oral
treatments](https://www.findapharmacy.com.au/home/oral-treatments)

Initial preplaced distribution of the oral treatments by the Australian
Government was prioritised to those with the highest clinical need including:

  * people living in residential aged care facilities (Lagevrio® only)
  * rural and remote communities
  * First Nations people
  * people with a disability, especially in a supported living setting.

## **Residential aged care facilities**

Access to Lagevrio and Paxlovid requires a prescription from an authorised GP
or Nurse Practitioner.

Timing is critical for COVID-19 antiviral treatments to be the most effective.
People in residential aged care and their families should be thinking about
how you might get the antiviral before you get COVID-19.

Providing advanced consent to your GP or clinical team will make sure you or
the person you are caring for (for a substitute decision-maker such as medical
power of attorney or guardian) will receive quick access to a COVID-19
treatment.

Please talk to your GP or clinical care team if you have any questions and to
plan for what to do if you or the person you are caring for get COVID-19,
including consent to receive oral treatment for COVID-19.

Residential aged care homes are encouraged to pre-assess any potentially
eligible residents to facilitate speedy access and best practice treatment in
a residential aged care setting.

### **For residents and families**

  * [COVID-19 oral treatments – Information for residents and their families in residential aged care facilities](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/covid-19-oral-treatments-information-for-residents-and-their-families-in-residential-aged-care-facilities)
  * [Fact sheet for residents and families on COVID-19 Vaccination and Oral Antiviral treatments](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/fact-sheet-for-residents-and-families-on-covid-19-vaccination-and-antivirals "Fact sheet for residents and families on COVID-19 Vaccination and Antivirals")

#### For residential aged care staff, GPs and pharmacists ****

  * [Use of Lagevrio (molnupiravir) in residential aged care](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/coronavirus-covid-19-use-of-lagevrio-molnupiravir-in-residential-aged-care)
  * [Use of Paxlovid (nirmatrelvir + ritonavir) in residential aged care](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/coronavirus-covid-19-use-of-paxlovid-nirmatrelvir-ritonavir-in-residential-aged-care)
  * [How to access treatments for COVID-19 and flu](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/how-to-access-treatments-for-covid-19-and-flu)

#### For health professionals – Lagevrio for people with difficulty swallowing
capsules

Lagevrio capsules should not be opened, broken or crushed, however, if a
resident or patient cannot swallow capsules whole, there is an option for an
oral solution if deemed clinically necessary.

## **People living with disability**

If you’re a person with disability, and you’re at higher risk of severe
illness from COVID-19, you may be eligible for oral antiviral treatments.

Check your risk factors for
[Paxlovid](https://www.pbs.gov.au/medicine/item/12996B-13147Y) **.**

Check your risk factors for
[Lagevrio](https://www.pbs.gov.au/medicine/item/12910L-13144T).

Read this [information sheet for more information about COVID-19 oral
treatments for people with
disability](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/information-
sheet-for-people-with-disability-covid-19-oral-medicines "Information sheet
for people with disability – COVID-19 oral medicines").

Download the [easy read
resource](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/covid-19-medicines-
easy-read "COVID-19 medicines – Easy read") providing information on the
COVID-19 medicines that you might be able to have if you get COVID-19.

## **Use in community settings**

Supplies of the oral treatments have been provided to state and territory
governments through the National Medical Stockpile for use in their COVID-19
care arrangements with a focus on those who will benefit most: people living
in rural and remote areas, First Nations communities, and people with
disability, especially in supported living settings.

**Information on accessing oral treatments for states and territories**

  * Australian Capital Territory 
    * [ACT Health - Pharmaceutical Services](https://health.act.gov.au/health-professionals/pharmaceutical-services)
  * New South Wales 
    * [NSW Health: Antivirals – your questions answered](https://www.nsw.gov.au/covid-19/management/antivirals#:~:text=The%20Therapeutic%20Goods%20Administration%20\(TGA,are%20both%20available%20in%20NSW.) – for patients
    * [Oral antiviral medicines for COVID-19](https://www.cec.health.nsw.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/701990/Prescription-and-Declaration-Oral-antiviral-medicines-for-COVID-19-GP.pdf) – for clinicians
    * [Drug Guideline Use of molnupiravir capsule for COVID-19](https://www.cec.health.nsw.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0006/702816/Drug-guideline-use-of-molnupiravir-capsules-for-COVID-19.PDF) – for clinicians
  * Northern Territory 
    * [COVID-19 medications](https://health.nt.gov.au/covid-19/managing-covid-19/medications)
  * Queensland 
    * [Paxlovid (nirmatrelvir plus ritonavir)](https://www.health.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0020/1142075/nirmatrelvir-patient-information.pdf) – for patients
    * [Paxlovid (nirmatrelvir plus ritonavir) Informed consent](https://www.health.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0023/1147172/nirmatrelvir-informed-consent.pdf) – for patients
    * [Lagevrio (molnupiravir) prescribing guide](https://www.health.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0019/1142074/molnupiravir-prescribing-guideline.pdf) – for clinicians
    * Oral treatments – [Clinical guidelines](https://www.health.qld.gov.au/clinical-practice/guidelines-procedures/novel-coronavirus-qld-clinicians/clinical-guidelines)

  * South Australia 
    * [Treatments for COVID-19](https://www.sahealth.sa.gov.au/wps/wcm/connect/public+content/sa+health+internet/conditions/infectious+diseases/covid-19/health+professionals/monoclonal+antibody+infusion+application+for+covid-19+positive+patients)
  * Tasmania 
    * [COVID-19 treatments](https://www.coronavirus.tas.gov.au/keeping-yourself-safe/covid-19-treatments#:~:text=Importantly%2C%20oral%20antiviral%20medicines%20for,if%20you%20do%20test%20positive.) – information for patients
    * Tasmanian Public Health Hotline – [1800 671 738](tel:%201800671738)
  * Victoria 
    * [Antivirals and other medicines](https://www.coronavirus.vic.gov.au/covid-19-medicines) – for patients
    * [Documents and processes for accessing NMS medications in Victoria](https://www.health.vic.gov.au/covid-19/vaccines-and-medications-in-patients-with-covid-19) – for clinicians
  * Western Australia 
    * [WA Health guidelines for use of Molnupiravir (Lagevrio®) for COVID-19](https://ww2.health.wa.gov.au/~/media/Corp/Documents/Health-for/Infectious-disease/COVID19/WA-guidelines-for-use-of-molnupiravir.pdf)
    * [WA Health guidelines for use of Nirmatrelvir + Ritonavir (Paxlovid®)](https://ww2.health.wa.gov.au/~/media/Corp/Documents/Health-for/Infectious-disease/COVID19/WA-guidelines-for-use-of-nirmatrelvir-plus-ritonavir.pdf)

## **Cost of treatment**

**If you have a Medicare card**

The oral antiviral treatments for COVID-19, Paxlovid and Lagevrio, are listed
on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS).

This means the medications are subsidised for people with a Medicare card.

From 1 January 2023, the maximum cost for a pharmaceutical benefit item under
the PBS at a pharmacy is $30 for general patients and $7.30 for concession
card holders.

More information can be found at [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) |
Changes to the PBS to make medicines more
affordable](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/news/2023/01/changes-to-the-pbs-to-
make-medicines-more-affordable).

**If you DO NOT have a Medicare card**

Please download the [fact sheet for information on accessing oral treatments
for COVID-19 you do not have a Medicare
card](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/covid-19-oral-
treatments-for-people-without-a-medicare-card "COVID-19 oral treatments for
people without a Medicare card").

## **GPs/primary care**

Subscribe to the [COVID-19 weekly updates for primary
care](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/subscriptions/subscribe-to-
covid-19-weekly-updates-for-primary-care) hosted by the Department.

This forum releases updates for primary care so you can stay up to date with
the Department’s latest advice on COVID-19.

The Royal Australian College of General Practitioners (RACGP) has also
released [prescribing information for GPs](https://www.racgp.org.au/clinical-
resources/covid-19-resources/clinical-care/oral-antiviral-treatments-for-
covid-19-br-prescrib/introduction).

Supporting regulatory documents, including the Product Information and
Consumer Medicine Information, which provide details on dosage, side effects,
contraindications and other essential prescribing information, can be found at
[on the TGA website](https://www.tga.gov.au/covid-19-treatments-provisional-
registrations).

## **More information**

For more comprehensive information on these oral treatments, please read:

  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/publications) – Fact Sheets on Paxlovid and Lagevrio 
  * [COVID-19 Oral Treatments Overview](/resources/publications/covid-19-oral-treatments-fact-sheet "COVID-19 Oral treatments fact sheet") – updated January 2023
  * [TGA website](https://www.tga.gov.au/products/covid-19/covid-19-treatments/covid-19-treatments-provisional-registrations)

Last updated:

12 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Coronavirus (COVID-19)](/health-alerts/covid-19)

  * [About the pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19/about)
  * [Case numbers](/health-alerts/covid-19/case-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Symptoms](/health-alerts/covid-19/symptoms)
  * [Protect yourself and others](/health-alerts/covid-19/protect-yourself-and-others)
  * [COVID-19 treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/about)
    * [Oral treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/oral)
    * [Eligibility for treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/eligibility)
    * [Treating your patients](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/treating-your-patients)
  * [Testing](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing)
  * [Testing positive, and close contacts](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing-positive)
  * [Domestic travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/domestic-travel)
  * [International travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/international-travel)
  * [Physical, mental and financial support](/health-alerts/covid-19/support)
  * [Advice for groups at greater risk](/health-alerts/covid-19/advice-for-groups-at-risk)
  * [For aged care sector](/topics/aged-care/advice-on-aged-care-during-covid-19)
  * [For health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)
  * [Government response](/health-alerts/covid-19/government-response)
  * [Translated information](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

