Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [Medicare compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

[Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

# When Medicare compliance applies

Legislative requirements apply to health practitioners who bill, claim,
dispense and prescribe under the Medicare Benefits Schedule, Child Dental
Benefits Schedule and Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, and to organisations
receiving Practitioner Incentives Program payments.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=When Medicare compliance applies&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=When Medicare compliance applies&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)

Loading...

On this page

## **Who must comply with Medicare obligations**

Medicare compliance requirements apply to:

  * healthcare organisations receiving [PIP](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program) payments
  * all health practitioners who bill, claim, dispense or prescribe under the 
    * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) (MBS)
    * [Child Dental Benefits Schedule](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/child-dental-benefits-schedule) (CDBS)
    * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/) (PBS).

This includes:

  * [medical doctors and specialists](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/doctors-and-specialists)
  * [allied health providers](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/allied-health)
  * [dentists and dental practitioners](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/dentists)
  * [nurses and midwives](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/nurses-and-midwives)
  * [pharmacists](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmacists), regardless of where they are providing the service.

Medicare compliance requirements also apply to hospital treatment. Further
information can be found on the [Medicare billing in public
hospitals](/resources/collections/medicare-billing-in-public-hospitals
"Medicare billing in public hospitals") webpage.

All health practitioners must meet [eligibility requirements to access
Medicare benefits](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry "Accessing
Medicare for health practitioners and industry") before they can dispense,
prescribe, bill or claim under Medicare programs.

Most health practitioners meet the requirements. When non-compliance occurs
it's often accidental.

## **Programs and payments covered by Medicare compliance**

Laws and agreements apply to the Medicare programs under which practitioners
and organisations can bill, claim rebates, receive payments, and prescribe or
dispense medicines.

### **Child Dental Benefits Schedule (CDBS)**

The [CDBS](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/child-dental-
benefits-schedule) provides funding for basic dental services to eligible
children in public and private settings. It does not cover orthodontic or
cosmetic dental work, or services provided in a hospital.

The national [Dental Benefits Act
2008](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00006) sets compliance
obligations that dentists and dental practitioners must comply with under the
CDBS.

### **Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)**

The MBS lists services covered under Medicare. This includes treatment,
consultation, allied health, pathology and diagnostic imaging services.

Medicare benefits are also available for some hospital treatments. To access
Medicare benefits for hospital treatment, at a public or private hospital, a
valid private election must be in place.

The national [Health Insurance Act
1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00174) and associated
regulations set MBS compliance obligations that health practitioners who
provide MBS services must follow.

Read more about [what the MBS covers](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-
covers "What Medicare covers").

### **Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)**

The [PBS](http://www.pbs.gov.au/) Schedule lists the prescription
[medicines](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/medicines) that are
subsidised for eligible patients.

Compliance obligations are set by the:

  * [National Health Act 1953](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00298)

  * [National Health (Pharmaceutical Benefits) Regulations 2017](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2022C01022)
  * [National Health (Listing of Pharmaceutical Benefits) Instrument 2012](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2022C01061)
  * state and territory drug and poisons legislation.

### **Practice Incentive Program (PIP)**

[PIP](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program) encourages
general practices to provide quality care, increase capacity and improve
access and health outcomes for patients.

We may audit any activities relating to these programs as part of [our
compliance activities](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities "Our
Medicare compliance activities").

Last updated:

1 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
    * [About](/topics/medicare/compliance/about)
    * [When it applies](/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)
    * [How to comply](/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)
    * [Our compliance activities](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)
    * [Voluntary acknowledgement](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
    * [Debts and penalties](/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)
    * [Reporting incorrect billing or claiming, or suspected fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

