Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  4. [Providing aged care services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services)

[Providing aged care services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services)

# Newsletters and alerts for the aged care sector

Stay up to date with newsletters and alerts for the aged care sector.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Newsletters and alerts for the aged care sector&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/newsletters-and-alerts-for-the-aged-care-sector?language=und)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/newsletters-and-alerts-for-the-aged-care-sector?language=und)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Newsletters and alerts for the aged care sector&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/newsletters-and-alerts-for-the-aged-care-sector?language=und)

Loading...

If you work or have an interest in the aged care sector, please subscribe to
our newsletters and alerts to stay up to date with changes.

[Subscribe to aged care sector newsletters and alerts](/using-our-
websites/subscriptions/subscribe-to-the-aged-care-sector-newsletters-and-
alerts "Subscribe to the aged care sector newsletters and alerts")

News, newsletters and alerts starting from 2019 are listed below. For previous
announcements see our [web
archive](http://web.archive.org/web/20180313040147/https://agedcare.health.gov.au/news-
and-resources/announcements).

## Health sector newsletters and alerts

### [Reminder – Webinar today: Update on COVID-19 in aged care
](/news/newsletters/reminder-webinar-today-update-on-covid-19-in-aged-
care?language=en)

26 May 2023

Newsletter

A reminder for aged care providers that the Department of Health and Aged Care
is hosting a webinar on winter preparedness, with important information on
COVID-19 booster doses for older people, including people living in
residential aged care homes.

### [Aged Care Alert – Home Care Packages subsidy rate to increase from 1 July
2023 to cover the cost of increased wages  ](/news/announcements/aged-care-
alert-home-care-packages-subsidy-rate-to-increase-from-1-july-2023-to-cover-
the-cost-of-increased-wages?language=en)

26 May 2023

Subscriber announcement

The Australian Government will increase the Home Care Packages (HCP) subsidy
rate by 11.9% (including annual indexation) from 1 July 2023 to pass on the
Fair Work Commission’s 15% award wage increase and ensure HCP recipients
continue to receive the same level of care and services.

### [Your Aged Care Update issue 19, 2023 ](/news/newsletters/your-aged-care-
update-issue-19-2023?language=en)

25 May 2023

Newsletter

In this issue, register for a webinar about the 24/7 registered nurse
responsibility for residential care, and read about new palliative care
resources.

### [Protecting Older Australians – COVID-19 update 22 May 2023
](/news/newsletters/protecting-older-australians-
covid-19-update-22-may-2023?language=en)

24 May 2023

Newsletter

Read the Protecting Older Australians COVID-19 update newsletter from 22 May
2023.

### [Your Aged Care Update issue 18, 2023 ](/news/newsletters/your-aged-care-
update-issue-18-2023?language=en)

18 May 2023

Newsletter

In this issue, learn about Budget measures for aged care, the new Aged Care
Industry Labour Agreement and a new AN-ACC assessment pathways fact sheet.

### [Protecting Older Australians – COVID-19 update 8 May 2023
](/news/newsletters/protecting-older-australians-
covid-19-update-8-may-2023?language=en)

10 May 2023

Newsletter

In this issue, read about managing COVID-19, COVID-19 vaccination booster
doses, influenza vaccinations, accessing COVID-19 PCR testing through
Medicare, IPC Lead Nurse training grants, PPE winter deployment, and the ACCPA
Winter preparedness webinar.

### [Your Aged Care Update issue 17, 2023 ](/news/newsletters/your-aged-care-
update-issue-17-2023?language=en)

10 May 2023

Newsletter

In this issue, news about the reforms, sector news, information for home care
providers and residential care providers.

### [Aged Care Alert – Aged Care 2023-24 Budget ](/news/announcements/aged-
care-alert-aged-care-2023-24-budget?language=en)

11 May 2023

Subscriber announcement

The Australian Government 2023-24 Budget responds to recommendations of the
Royal Commission into Aged Care Quality and Safety

### [Aged Care Alert – $11.3 billion funding announced for aged care wage
increase ](/news/announcements/aged-care-alert-113-billion-funding-announced-
for-aged-care-wage-increase?language=en)

8 May 2023

Subscriber announcement

The Australian Government is investing $11.3 billion to fund the Fair Work
Commission’s decision for a 15 per cent increase to award wages.

### [Supporting CHSP providers – Fair Work Commission grant opportunity
](/news/announcements/supporting-chsp-providers-fair-work-commission-grant-
opportunity?language=en)

4 May 2023

Subscriber announcement

We will be opening a new grant opportunity for Commonwealth Home Support
Programme (CHSP) providers to apply for funding to meet the costs associated
with increases in the Fair Work Commission award wage.

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Page 3 ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=2 "Go to page 3")
  * [ Page 4 ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=3 "Go to page 4")
  * [ Page 5 ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=4 "Go to page 5")
  * [ Page 6 ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=5 "Go to page 6")
  * [ Page 7 ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=6 "Go to page 7")
  * [ Page 8 ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=7 "Go to page 8")
  * [ Page 9 ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=8 "Go to page 9")
  * …
  * [ Next page Next › ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?language=und&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC&page=103 "Go to last page")

Last updated:

1 February 2023

Tags:

  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)

  * [Advice on aged care during COVID-19](/topics/aged-care/advice-on-aged-care-during-covid-19)
  * [About aged care](/topics/aged-care/about-aged-care)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Providing aged care services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services)
    * [News and announcements](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/newsletters-and-alerts-for-the-aged-care-sector)
    * [Before providing services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/before-providing-aged-care-services)
    * [Responsibilities of approved providers](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/responsibilities)
    * [Delivering quality services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/delivering-quality-aged-care-services)
    * [Service delivery](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/service-delivery-for-aged-care)
    * [Funding for service providers](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/funding-for-aged-care-service-providers)
    * [Charging fees for services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/charging-fees-for-aged-care-services)
    * [Working in aged care](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/working-in-aged-care)
    * [Support for younger people](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/support-for-younger-people)
  * [News](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Research and reporting](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-research-and-reporting)
  * [Resources](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

