Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

[Pathology](/topics/pathology)

# Pathology compliance

The national Health Insurance Act 1973 includes provisions for prohibited
practices. The provisions include rent for Approved Collection Centres. Learn
more about these provisions and how to comply with them.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Pathology compliance&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/compliance)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/compliance)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Pathology compliance&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/compliance)

Loading...

On this page

## About pathology rents

Approved pathology collection centres (ACCs) are often co-located with other
health services, such as general practitioner (GP) clinics.

Paying rent for pathology premises, or other benefits, can breach the
‘prohibited practices provisions’ of the [Health Insurance Act 1973 (Part
IIBA)](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00174/Text#_Toc106353624).
These provisions include civil penalties for:

  * offering, giving, asking for, or accepting a benefit
  * making a threat that can cause a requestor of the pathology services to ask for services from a particular provider
  * being related to the business of providing a pathology service, such as charging too much or too little rent, compared to other nearby ACCs such as within the same postcode.

## Why they are important

Prohibited practices prevent misuse of public funds through Medicare.

## When they apply

These rules apply to any payment for the use or occupation of premises,
including rent or a licence fee.

They do not apply when a lease is shared.

Learn more about which commercial arrangements are permitted (under strict
rules) in the [Red Book](/resources/publications/the-red-book "The Red Book").

## Who they apply to

The prohibited practices provisions apply to anyone who requests a Medicare-
eligible pathology service, including:

  * general practitioners
  * medical specialists
  * dental practitioners
  * podiatrists
  * physiotherapists
  * osteopaths
  * chiropractors
  * nurse practitioners.

In some circumstances the provisions also to apply to people who are connected
to a requestor or provider, such as relatives, staff or business partners.

Read more details about who is affected in the [Red
Book](/resources/publications/the-red-book "The Red Book").

## How to comply

[The Red Book](/resources/publications/the-red-book "The Red Book") outlines
our compliance and enforcement strategy. It helps both requesters and
providers of pathology services to [comply with the
legislation](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00174/Text#_Toc106353624).

We regularly monitor the pathology sector, including ACCs that are:

  * new
  * closed
  * updated
  * reopened.

### Reporting to Services Australia

Approved Pathology Authorities (APAs) must [report the following changes to
Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/approved-pathology-
authorities?context=20#a3):

  * ACC lessor and sub-lessor details
  * rent per year
  * the area of premises used by the ACC, exclusively or otherwise
  * change of facility name (for example, a medical centre name change)
  * change of room
  * options to extend the lease.

ACCs must [tell Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/approved-collection-
centres?context=20#manageyouraccinhpos) within 30 days of acquiring or merging
with an APA.

Accredited Pathology Laboratories must [complete an acquisition or merger
advice form](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/accredited-pathology-
laboratories?context=20#a3) if ownership of the laboratory changes.

Contact our [compliance team](/contacts/pathology-collection-centres-
compliance-team "Pathology collection centres compliance team") if you need
more information.

## How to report non-compliance

Anyone can tell us about non-compliant parties. You must do this within 30
days of becoming aware of the prohibited practices. This will help you avoid a
civil penalty ([Part IIBA of the Health Insurance Act
1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00174/Text#_Toc106353624)).

Find out how to [report suspected
fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-
suspected-fraud "Reporting incorrect billing, claiming, or suspected fraud").

## Managing non-compliance

Sometimes we take enforcement action against those who:

  * do not comply with the prohibited practice provisions
  * are engaging in repeated, deliberate or systematic contravention of the prohibited practice provisions.

Enforcement actions may include:

  * accepting a voluntary compliance undertaking from parties that express a commitment to comply
  * legal proceedings when there is evidence of a serious breach.

Learn more about [civil penalties](/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-
penalties "Non-compliance debts and penalties").

Last updated:

7 February 2023

Tags:

  * [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

  * [About pathology](/topics/pathology/about-pathology)
  * [What we're doing about pathology](/topics/pathology/what-were-doing-about-pathology)
  * [Pathology compliance](/topics/pathology/compliance)
  * [Resources](/topics/pathology/pathology-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/pathology/pathology-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

