Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)
  3. [Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

[Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

# A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan – March
2023

A newsletter from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan with
updates from the nursing and midwifery sector, some personal priorities and
highlights, and an insight on what's happening across the Department of Health
and Aged Care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan – March 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023-0)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023-0)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan – March 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023-0)

Loading...

Date published:

4 April 2023

Audience:

Health sector

On this page

I write to you from Ngunnawal Country where the leaves are changing colour as
we head into the cooler months. This newsletter is focused on Australian
Government updates and current priorities within the nursing and midwifery
sector. I will highlight the work that is being done to better support our
nurses and midwives who have worked tirelessly over the past few years through
the COVID-19 pandemic. These initiatives and programs share the common purpose
of providing resources to our nurses and midwives to help reduce the effects
of work-related stress.

For more updates from the Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer, follow Alison
on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/professor-alison-mcmillan-
psm-201a4a50/).

## Ministerial announcements

  * The Government will consider priorities for investment under the $750 million Strengthening Medicare Fund in the May 2023-24 Budget. To read the media release visit our [website](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/strengthening-medicare-for-the-future).
  * Western Australia will receive $11.7 million to encourage local practices to offer more comprehensive, team-based services with nurse practitioners. To read the media release visit our [website](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/enhancing-team-based-primary-care-with-nurse-practitioners-in-wa?language=en).
  * The COVID-19 pandemic has placed the health workforce under a great deal of additional stress, in a context where healthcare workers were already struggling with work-related challenges including anxiety, depression, compassion fatigue and burnout. The Government has invested $1.7 million to extend The Essential Network (TEN) Project until 30 June 2024. To read more about the announcement visit our [website](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/more-mental-health-support-for-the-health-workforce?language=en).
  * The Government has committed $29.4 million over 4 years to the Workforce Incentive Program. This will increase access to nurses, allied health practitioners and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health workers and practitioners working as part of multidisciplinary teams. For further information visit our [website](https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2022/10/budget-october-2022-23-rebuilding-our-health-and-aged-care-workforce.pdf).
  * From 1 February 2023, the Government increased the rural loading payments paid to practices in [Modified Monash (MM) category](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/mmm) 3 to 7 locations by 10%, up to the maximum loading of 60% for MM 7 practices. Further information about the program is available on our [website](https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream).

## **Strengthening Medicare Taskforce**

The Strengthening Medicare Taskforce met 6 times between July and December
2022 and considered ways to:

  * improve patient access to general practice, including after hours
  * improve patient access to multidisciplinary team care, including nursing and allied health
  * make health care more affordable for patients
  * increase prevention and improve management of ongoing health conditions including chronic conditions, and
  * decrease pressure on hospitals.

The Taskforce provided a report with recommendations, which was considered by
National Cabinet and released by the Australian Government on 3 February 2023.
The report is available [online](https://www.health.gov.au/news/release-of-
the-strengthening-medicare-taskforce-
report#:~:text=The%20Australian%20Government%20released%20the,of%20the%20Strengthening%20Medicare%20Taskforce.).

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

