Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Top up your COVID-19 protection logo](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/
"Home")

Top up your COVID-19 protection

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/top-up-covid-19-protection)
  * [Resources](/top-up-covid-19-protection/resources)
  * [Resources for First Nations people](/top-up-covid-19-protection/resources-for-first-nations-people)
  * [Translated resources](/top-up-covid-19-protection/translated-resources)

# Top up your COVID-19 protection

Some things need topping up from time to time, including your COVID-19
protection.

[ Download campaign resources ](/top-up-covid-19-protection/resources)

![Keep your COVID guard
up](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-03/dt0003589-smt-
guard_up-boxing400x400.png?itok=uai3APRy)

## Getting vaccinated

If you’re an adult and it’s been 6 months or more since your last COVID-19
vaccination or infection, you can now get a booster. Top up your protection
with the latest vaccine.​

[**Find a clinic and book**](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-
health-services) ****

## 2023 booster advice

All adults can get a booster if it’s been 6 months or more since your last
COVID-19 vaccine or confirmed COVID-19 infection – whichever was most recent.

A booster is particularly recommended for people at higher risk of severe
illness, including people:

  * 65 years or older
  * 18 years or older with medical conditions, disability or complex health needs.

The new COVID-19 bivalent vaccines help protect against the original strain of
COVID-19 and the Omicron variants. A booster provides very strong protection
against serious illness from COVID-19.

The date you had your last COVID-19 vaccine is on your COVID-19 digital
certificate, available through your [myGov account](https://my.gov.au/) or the
Express Plus Medicare App. Healthcare providers who provide vaccinations,
including pharmacists, can also check your immunisation history for you.

[Read the ATAGI statement](/news/atagi-2023-booster-advice "ATAGI 2023 booster
advice")

![Recharge your COVID
protection](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-03/recharge_your_covid_protection.png?itok=BufqREmW)

## Getting your COVID-19 vaccination

###  [ Where to get vaccinated ](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination/locations)

Find out where COVID-19 vaccines are available across Australia.

###  [ Before your vaccination ](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination/before)

Learn how to prepare for your vaccination appointment.

###  [ After your vaccination ](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination/after)

Find out what you need to do after you are vaccinated.

###  [ If you don't have a Medicare card ](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card)

Find out where you can get a vaccination if you aren't eligible for Medicare.

## Videos

[ ![Top up campaign video
still](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/2023-03/top-
up-booster-campaign-30-seconds_0.jpg?itok=aOTl-bHM) ]()

0:30

Transcript

Chances are, you’re due for a COVID-19 booster.

Time to top up.

It’s the best way to maintain your protection against severe illness.

Pump up.

So if you’re an adult and it’s six months since your last COVID vaccination or
infection, you can now get a booster.

Keep your guard up.

However you say it, you can now top up your protection with the latest
vaccine.

Visit the website to book your free booster.

The ball’s in your court.

Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra.

[ ![COVID top up campaign video
still](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/2023-03/top-
up-booster-campaign-first-nations-audiences-30-seconds.jpg?itok=BSJpeLMP) ]()

0:30

Transcript

We top up everyday.

We top up to keep close.

We top up to keep rolling.

And we even top up to keep having a yarn.

It’s time to think about topping up with a free COVID-19 booster – to keep you
and your mob protected from serious illness from COVID-19.

If you’re an adult and it’s been six months since you caught COVID or had a
COVID jab, talk to your doctor or health worker about a free booster today.

Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra.

## Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People

It’s time to think about topping up your COVID-19 protection with a free
booster. This will keep you and your mob protected from serious illness from
COVID-19.

[Read more about COVID-19](/health-alerts/covid-19/advice-for-groups-at-
risk/indigenous "Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and COVID-19")

[View campaign resources for First Nations people](/top-up-
covid-19-protection/resources-for-first-nations-people "Resources for First
Nations people")

![Top up with your free COVID-19 booster campaign image of two first nations
women having
tea](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-03/top_up_first_nations.jpg?itok=js9yUmBM)

![Top up your COVID protection campaign
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-03/top_up_fuel_0.png?itok=2P2fL18Z)

##
![](/sites/default/themes/custom/health/images/icons/globe-055da0.svg)COVID-19
Information in your language

It’s important to stay informed about COVID-19 and the COVID-19 vaccination
program through reliable and official sources.

[View translated COVID-19 vaccine information](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information "COVID-19
vaccines translated information")

[**TIS National 131 450**](tel:131450)

###  [ Coronavirus helpline ](/contacts/national-coronavirus-helpline)

###  [ Ways to stay COVID Safe ](/health-alerts/covid-19/protect-yourself-and-
others)

###  [ Oral treatments ](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/oral)

###  [ Information for the disability sector ](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)

###  [ Information for the aged care sector ](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-
residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)

###  [ Vaccination rates ](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-
and-statistics)

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

