Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)
  3. [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review Advisory Committee (MRAC)](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac)

[MBS Review Advisory Committee](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-
schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac)

# Request a review under the MBS Continuous Review

Find out about what you should do before requesting a review.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Request a review under the MBS Continuous Review&url=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/request-a-review-under-the-mbs-continuous-review)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/request-a-review-under-the-mbs-continuous-review)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Request a review under the MBS Continuous Review&body=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/request-a-review-under-the-mbs-continuous-review)

Loading...

On this page

## **Who can request a review**

Any stakeholder can submit a review request. However, for requests that
involve new technologies, treatments, and associated fees, please contact the
[Medicare Services Advisory Committee (MSAC)](http://www.msac.gov.au/).

## **When a review can be requested**

Stakeholders can submit a review request at any time. Requests are first
considered by the Department of Health and Aged Care. If appropriate for
further consideration, requests will be progressed to the MBS Continuous
Review Executive. If accepted, the request may then progress to the MRAC.

## **How to request a review**

To request a review, please email a completed [review request
template](/resources/publications/mbs-continuous-review-review-request "MBS
Continuous Review – Review request") to
[MBSContinuousReview@health.gov.au](mailto:MBSContinuousReview@health.gov.au).
In your request, you must:

  1. Provide a title and summary of the review topic.
  2. Describe the problem and identify the issue for patients. 
  3. Describe the estimated or known impact of the problem. Use a relevant metric, such as patient cohort size or financial impact.
  4. Explain why the MBS is the appropriate mechanism to resolve the problem. State whether you have considered other mechanisms or funding sources.
  5. Describe the solution and outcome. Identify any potential consequences and suggest how to mitigate these consequences.
  6. Provide your contact information. This includes your name, title, organisation, and contact information. 

After receiving your email, we will assess your request.

## **How we consider review requests**

Once we receive a review request, it is progressed to the relevant policy area
in the Department of Health and Aged Care for an initial suitability
assessment before progression to the MBS Continuous Review Executive – a
governance body which oversees the prioritisation and timing of review topics.
The MBS Continuous Review Executive is comprised of the MRAC Chair and Deputy
Chair, along with Department of Health and Aged Care senior executives.

If a review request is deemed suitable, it will be scheduled for presentation
to the MRAC for commencement. To support this process, the initiator will be
asked to complete a review proposal. This proposal will extend upon the
initial request by providing further information. In some cases, we will ask
you to provide qualitative and quantitative evidence to support your request.

The work of the MBS Continuous Review and the MRAC is subject to a
prioritisation process and not all submissions will be accepted.

To stay up to date, see [current reviews](/node/32151#current-reviews).

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ MBS Continuous Review contact ](/contacts/mbs-continuous-review-
contact?language=en)

Contact us with questions about the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)
Continuous Review.

[MBSContinuousReview@health.gov.au](mailto:MBSContinuousReview@health.gov.au)

[Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Continuous
Review](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/medicare-benefits-
schedule-mbs-continuous-review)

Last updated:

11 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [MBS Review Advisory Committee](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-
schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac)

  * [Request a review](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/request-a-review-under-the-mbs-continuous-review)
  * [Completed reviews](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/completed-reviews-under-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee)
  * [What happens after reviews are completed](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/what-happens-after-reviews-by-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee-are-completed)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

