Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and David Dowsett, ABC Wide
Bay - 21 April 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's interview with David
Dowsett and Emergency medical transport funding, GP grants, Single employer
model, HELP debt, Innovative models of care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and David Dowsett, ABC Wide Bay - 21 April 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-david-dowsett-abc-wide-bay-21-april-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-david-dowsett-abc-wide-bay-21-april-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and David Dowsett, ABC Wide Bay - 21 April 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-david-dowsett-abc-wide-bay-21-april-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

21 April 2023

Date published:

21 April 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**DAVID DOWSETT, HOST:** Lifesaving rescue services in our region are set to
get a big boost with a $1.1 million federal government grant. So how would the
money be used? And what else is the government doing to help attract and
retain more healthcare staff to the Wide Bay region and help reduce the
country-city divide when it comes to quality of care? Emma McBride, Assistant
Minister for Rural and Regional Health. Good morning.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** David, it's so good to be with you.

**DAVID DOWSETT, HOST:** Nice to have you here. Well, first of all, tell us
about this funding boosts for our region.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** I'm very pleased to be able to let your
listeners know that the Australian Government is investing $5.4 million to
expand medical transport and specialist outreach clinics for people living in
rural remote areas of Queensland and also parts of New South Wales and the
Australian Capital Territory. And locally that will include $4.3 million for
Little Wings, and importantly, where you are, $1.1 million for LifeFlight.

**DAVID DOWSETT, HOST:** Very good indeed. 1.1 million. So, what would that
actually provide?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Well, LifeFlight operates a fleet of
helicopters and air ambulance jets to provide 24/7 lifesaving rescue services
to people across Queensland. What this grant will do is support the Bundaberg
LifeFlight rescue helicopter to employ a critical care doctor as part of its
crew seven days a week during daylight hours in Bundaberg. It's so important
to have that medical care and support, that specialist medical care and
support, available seven days a week and I know this will give so many people
particularly in Bundaberg that peace of mind and reassurance to know that that
medical care and support is available to them.

**DAVID DOWSETT, HOST:** Very good, critical care doctor as part of the crew
very important indeed. Does that mean that there isn't one currently in place?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Well, I know that this will be expanding
the services of critical care doctors so that it is across seven days a week.
We know how important it is for families and their critically ill children
themselves that they get that immediate care and support on the ground and as
they're then airlifted to the tertiary hospital to get that specialist service
that they need in hospital.

**DAVID DOWSETT, HOST:** Okay, so when does the funding arrive?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** So the funding has been announced and is
available. We're very pleased that this grant will now be available to support
the Bundaberg LifeFlight rescue helicopter service. And what this will mean to
the local communities to make sure that local people wherever they live have
access to quality health care close to home. As a pharmacist myself that grew
up in a regional community and having in this job being able to visit so many
more rural and remote communities, I know just how important it is for people
to know if their child is critically ill that they will have that care and
support close to home to get them to the specialist care they need quickly and
safely.

**DAVID DOWSETT, HOST:** I understand there's also a grants program for GPs,
what's happening there?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** I'm very pleased that the government has
announced as part of our election commitment to strengthen general practice
across Australia $220 million in Strengthening Medicare in General Practice
Grants. I've had the chance to visit GPs and surgeries right across Australia,
and they often talk to me about the cost of running a practice or being able
to upgrade digital equipment or being able to improve their infection
prevention and control. And what these grants, up to $50,000, will mean is
that general practices can do exactly that. They'll be able to upgrade that
specialist equipment, be able to enhance their digital technology to make sure
that local people can get the care and the support that they need. I know this
is going to be very welcome, and the letters will be going out to general
practices right across Australia from this week. So doctors will soon be able
to apply for these grants, which will make a really big difference in
investing in the equipment and the technology that they have available and in
the care that they can provide to local communities.

**DAVID DOWSETT, HOST:** It's really great to have a grants program for GPs,
but of course you need GPs in the first place. What's your Government doing to
both attract and retain healthcare professionals in regional areas?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** This is an absolute top priority for our
government, because we know that, and people experience this right around
Australia, this problem of being able to get in to see their GP, waiting weeks
for appointments, and this is a problem that has happened because of the
underinvestment and the neglect of the former government but what we're doing
is wiping the university debt of graduates who live and work in the most
regional and remote parts of Australia, because we know that that is a big
barrier to someone who's looking to work, or to move, or to set up a practice
in a rural area. We're also looking at a single employer model, which makes it
much easier for doctors who we train in our hospital systems to then
transition from the hospital system to primary care in particular general
practice. So they can bring across with them all of their entitlements from
the hospital system into primary care and into running their own general
practice. We're also investing in innovative models of care, and we've seen
some real advances through these innovative models of care grants, where local
practices are able to try and support new ways of practice including team
based care where other health care practitioners are able to work within that
practice to provide that specialist skill and expertise that people need.

**DAVID DOWSETT, HOST:** So looking forward, what would really be your goals
when it comes to bridging the obvious gap that there is between city and
country when it comes to health services?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** We know that someone who lives, say for
a woman who lives in the most remote part of Australia, her life expectancy at
the moment is 19 years shorter than her counterpart in a major city. For men,
that gap is 11 years. What we want to do is make sure that we have the right
sort of prevention and early intervention to keep people healthy and well in
their communities, but also to boost the clinical care and support so that
when people do need help, it's close to home. We don't want to see people
having to delay or avoid care which makes their symptoms worse and where they
end up in emergency departments. So we've announced urgent care centres right
around the country, which will provide that gap, will fill that gap, between
seeing your GP and needing to go to an emergency department. We're investing
in the training of junior doctors. We're looking at the single employer model
to encourage doctors to move from the hospital system to primary care and
general practice. And we're looking today to further supporting general
practices through these general practice grants,

**DAVID DOWSETT, HOST:** Changes that hopefully will make a big difference.
Emma McBride, appreciate your time. Thanks very much.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Thank you so much, David.

Tags:

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

