Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Dentists and dental practitioners](/topics/dentists)

[Dentists](/topics/dentists)

# About dentists and dental practitioners

Dentists and dental practitioners help us take care of our teeth and gums.
They diagnose and treat diseases of the teeth, gums and mouth, and help take
care of our dental health. Dental practitioners include dental hygienists,
therapists and prosthetists and oral health therapists.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About dentists and dental practitioners&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/dentists/about)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/dentists/about)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About dentists and dental practitioners&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/dentists/about)

Loading...

On this page

If you need a dentist, you can [find a dental health service near
you](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services).

## Roles of dental care professionals

### Dentists

Dentists provide:

  * assessment, diagnosis, treatment, management and preventive services 
  * diagnosis and treatment of diseases, injuries and abnormalities of teeth and gums 

  * restorative and preventive procedures 

  * surgery or other specialist services. 

Dentists must complete a minimum 4-year undergraduate degree, or 4-year
postgraduate master course. They must complete further training to specialise.

### Dental hygienists

Dental hygienists use preventive, educational and therapeutic methods to help
prevent and control oral disease and maintain oral health. They provide:

  * oral health assessment 

  * diagnosis 

  * treatment 

  * management 

  * education. 

Dental hygienists must complete a minimum 2-year advanced diploma, or 3-year
undergraduate course.

### Oral health therapists

Oral health therapists have dual qualifications as dental therapists and
hygienists. They may practice as a hygienist, a therapist or both. Unless they
have completed further training, oral health therapists treat patients aged
under 18 years, with:

  * oral health assessment 

  * diagnosis 

  * treatment 

  * management and preventive services, such as fillings, tooth extraction and gum treatment 

  * education. 

Oral health therapists must complete a minimum 3-year undergraduate course.

### Dental therapists

Dental therapists generally treat patients under the age of 18, unless they
have completed further training. They provide:

  * oral health assessment 

  * diagnosis

  * treatment 

  * management and preventive services, such as x-rays, examinations, dental impressions and routine treatment. 

Dental therapists must complete a minimum 3-year undergraduate course.

### Dental prosthetists

Dental prosthetists make, fit, supply and repair dentures and other dental
appliances. They provide:

  * education 

  * assessment 

  * treatment 

  * management and provision of removable dentures 

  * flexible, removable mouthguards used for sporting activities. 

Dental prosthetists must complete a minimum 3-year undergraduate or one-year
postgraduate course.

Find out [how to become a dentist or a dental
practitioner](/topics/dentists/education-and-support "Education and support
for dentists and dental practitioners ").

## Dentist and dental practitioner registration

To practise in Australia, all dentists and dental practitioners must:

  * [complete an approved course](https://www.dentalboard.gov.au/Accreditation/Programs-of-study.aspx)

  * register with the [Dental Board of Australia (DBA)](https://www.dentalboard.gov.au/)

  * meet the DBA’s s[cope of practice registration standard for dental practitioners](https://www.dentalboard.gov.au/Codes-Guidelines/Know-your-scope.aspx)

  * adhere to the DBA’s [policies, codes and guidelines](https://www.dentalboard.gov.au/Codes-Guidelines/Policies-Codes-Guidelines.aspx).

Those who want to broaden their knowledge, expertise and competence can also
undertake [continuing professional
development](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/Registration/Registration-
Standards/CPD.aspx).

## Medicare compliance

We protect Australia’s health payments system from incorrect claiming,
inappropriate practice and fraud through a range of compliance activities. We
also monitor compliance activity through the Practitioner Review Program
(PRP).

### Practitioner Review Program

We monitor health practitioner conduct, including dentists and dental
practitioners, to identify inappropriate practices. This is done under our
[Practitioner Review Program](/topics/medicare-compliance/how-we-ensure-
compliance/practitioner-review "Practitioner reviews").

If the outcome of a review is unresolved, we may refer the matter to the
[Professional Services Review](https://www.psr.gov.au/) for further action.

### Billing and prescribing compliance

To protect Australia’s health payments system from incorrect claiming,
inappropriate practice and fraud, we monitor practitioners' billing and
prescribing practices against the:

  * Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)
  * Child Dental Benefits Scheme (CDBS)
  * Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS).

Learn more about how we [ensure Medicare compliance](/topics/medicare-
compliance/how-we-ensure-compliance "How we ensure Medicare compliance").

Last updated:

25 October 2022

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Dentists and dental practitioners](/topics/dentists)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Dentists](/topics/dentists)

  * [About dentists and dental practitioners](/topics/dentists/about)
    * [Dentists and dental practitioners in Australia](/topics/dentists/about/dentists-and-dental-practitioners-in-australia)
  * [What we do](/topics/dentists/what-we-do)
  * [Education and support](/topics/dentists/education-and-support)
  * [Contacts](/topics/dentists/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

