Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  3. [Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

[Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

# Organ donation saves 1224 lives but more donors needed

Thanks to the generosity of 454 organ donors, and their families who said yes
to donation, 1,224 Australian received a life-saving organ transplant in 2022.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Organ donation saves 1224 lives but more donors needed&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/organ-donation-saves-1224-lives-but-more-donors-needed)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/organ-donation-saves-1224-lives-but-more-donors-needed)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Organ donation saves 1224 lives but more donors needed&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/organ-donation-saves-1224-lives-but-more-donors-needed)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-
mp_1.jpg?itok=uQuoas5f)

**The Hon Ged Kearney MP**  
Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

21 February 2023

Date published:

21 February 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

Thanks to the generosity of 454 organ donors, and their families who said yes
to donation, 1,224 Australian received a life-saving organ transplant in 2022.  
  
The release of the 2022 Australian Donation and Transplantation Activity
Report shows early indications that recovery has begun towards pre-pandemic
levels of organ donation.  
  
An 8% increase in deceased organ donors and a 4% increase in the number of
people who received a transplant from 2021 shows early signs of recovery from
the impacts of COVID-19.  
  
The report shows that around one third of Australian organ donors did so at
Victorian hospitals – 144 generous Victorians becoming organ donors in 2022
alone, resulting in life-saving transplants for 371 people.  
  
Victoria is leading the nation’s recovery with the highest number of donors,
and a 30% increase in donation since 2021.  
  
Pressures on hospitals, restricted family visits, increased risks to
immunosuppressed patients and staffing have all created challenges. Since the
pandemic began, the number of organ donors and people who have received a
transplant has dropped by 15%. The number of families saying yes to donation
has decreased to 54%, down from 59% in 2019.  
  
Very few people get the chance to be an organ donor – only around 2% of people
who die in hospital can be considered. Increasing the number of people and
families who say yes to donation is critical to saving more lives.  
  
Around 8 in 10 families say yes to donation if their family member is
registered. This drops to 4 in 10 if their family didn’t know they wanted to
be a donor.  
  
For around 1,800 Australians on the waitlist for an organ transplant, it can
be a matter of life and death. A further 14,000 people are on dialysis, some
who may benefit from a kidney transplant.  
  
Registering and telling your family that you want to be an organ and tissue
donor is easy. It takes just three taps to register on the Medicare App, or
just one minute at [donatelife.gov.au](https://gedkearney.us19.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1c6f5f579a3b893243e5df472&id=d3c568ff10&e=6843271f52).  
  
**Quotes attributable to Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care Ged
Kearney MP**  
  
“Thank you to all the people who became organ donors, and their families for
saying yes. You have given so many people a second chance at life.  
  
We know that the impact on organ donation during the pandemic has been severe,
and while it is heartening to see signs of recovery there is still much to be
done.  
  
I call on all Australians to use this as a reminder to register – and don’t
forget the vital step of telling your family that you want to be an organ and
tissue donor.”  
  
**Quotes attributable to Victorian Minister for Health Mary-Anne Thomas**  
  
“On behalf of anyone whose life has been saved or transformed as the result of
organ donation, I want to wholeheartedly thank all the donors and their
families for their incredible acts of generosity in what can often be tragic
circumstances.  
  
These results show we are leading the nation in organ donation and serve as a
great reminder of the incredible work and commitment of our donation and
transplantation staff here in Victoria.”  
  
**Links:**

  * **2022 Statistics in Australia:** [Statistics in Australia | DonateLife](https://gedkearney.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=1c6f5f579a3b893243e5df472&id=f4100b716e&e=6843271f52)

Tags:

  * [Organ and tissue donation](/topics/organ-and-tissue-donation)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

