Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  4. [About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about)

[About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-
and-digital-health/about)

# Electronic health records

Electronic health records store your health information in a secure digital
system. Australia’s national system is called My Health Record. You and your
healthcare providers can access your electronic health records to help plan
your ongoing care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Electronic health records&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-health-records)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-health-records)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Electronic health records&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-health-records)

Loading...

On this page

## About electronic health records

Electronic health records provide a safe and secure digital space to store
your health information. They are a digital version of notes that used to be
kept in paper form.

Electronic health records allow your healthcare providers to access up-to-date
information to support your ongoing care.

## Benefits

Electronic health records make health information instantly available to
authorised people. They improve care coordination and can reduce the risk of
medical errors.

They keep information in one place, which helps health professionals to make
informed decisions about your care more quickly.

Electronic health record systems can also give providers access to digital
tools they can use to make decisions about your care. For example, they could
predict your risk of developing type 2 diabetes using the information in your
record.

Electronic health records also make workflow more efficient for healthcare
providers. They can reduce the time providers need to spend doing paperwork
and administrative tasks.

## My Health Record

[My Health Record](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/my-health-record) is Australia’s secure national electronic health
record system. Your My Health Record is a secure online summary of your health
information.

It provides you and your healthcare providers with access to vital health
information at the point of care, including in an emergency.

My Health Record is available to everyone who has a
[Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare) card or an
[individual healthcare identifier](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-
health/about/healthcare-identifiers "Healthcare Identifiers and the Healthcare
Identifier Service") (IHI). Most Australians now have a My Health Record.

Electronic health records in Australia have changed over time. My Health
Record replaced the Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record and the
eHealth record.

My Health Record benefits Australia’s health system by making it more
efficient, effective, and sustainable.

### Your choice

You can choose whether to have a My Health Record. If you no longer want one,
you can [cancel a My Health Record](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/for-you-
your-family/howtos/cancel-my-record) at any time.

You can also choose whether you want your healthcare provider to upload any
specific information to your record.

## More about My Health Record

The Australian Digital Health Agency has [more information on My Health
Record](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/my-health-
record), including:

  * benefits
  * what is included
  * setting up and using your record
  * access and data security
  * statistics on how people are using My Health Record.

We are developing [governance arrangements](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health/what-we-do/use-of-my-health-record-data "Use of My Health
Record data") so that in the future, researchers and public health policy
makers could apply to use My Health Record data to support their work in
improving health outcomes for Australians.

Last updated:

13 April 2022

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health)

  * [About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about)
    * [Healthcare identifiers](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/healthcare-identifiers)
    * [Electronic health records](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-health-records)
    * [Electronic prescriptions](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [Telehealth](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/telehealth)
  * [What we do](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/what-we-do)
  * [Health technology assessments (HTAs)](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments)
  * [News](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

