Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)

[Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)

# Comprehensive Primary Health Care Sustainability Committee

The Comprehensive Primary Health Care Sustainability Advisory Committee
monitors the Indigenous Australians’ Health Programme funding model. The
committee then advises us on how it is performing and how we can continue to
improve it.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Comprehensive Primary Health Care Sustainability Committee &url=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/comprehensive-primary-health-care-sustainability-committee)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/comprehensive-primary-health-care-sustainability-committee)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Comprehensive Primary Health Care Sustainability Committee &body=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/comprehensive-primary-health-care-sustainability-committee)

Loading...

On this page

## Role

Under the [Indigenous Australians’ Health Programme](/our-work/indigenous-
australians-health-programme "Indigenous Australians' Health Programme ")
(IAHP), we fund Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services (ACCHSs) to
deliver primary health care.

From 1 July 2020, we used a new funding model to distribute funding to ACCHSs
to deliver comprehensive primary health care under the IAHP.

The Comprehensive Primary Health Care Sustainability Advisory Committee (CPHC
SAC) monitors and evaluates this funding model and advises on ways we can
refine it over time.

The committee also advises on broader issues that affect sector sustainability
and capacity building more broadly. Examples include telehealth, voluntary
patient enrolment and Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) claiming.

The committee’s advice will help us continue to support ACCHSs to deliver
effective, high-quality, comprehensive and culturally appropriate primary
health care services.

## Members

**Member**

|

**Background and experience**  
  
---|---  
  
Mr Gavin Matthews (Chair)

|

Australian Government Department of Health  
  
Ms Kate Thomann

|

Australian Government Department of Health  
  
Mr Martin Graham

|

Australian Government Department of Finance  
  
Dr Dawn Casey

|

Deputy Chief Executive Officer, National Aboriginal Community Controlled
Health Organisation (NACCHO)  
  
Ms Raylene Gordon

|

Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation representative, Aboriginal
Health and Medical Research Council of News South Wales  
  
Mr Chris Bin Kali

|

Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation representative, Aboriginal
Health Council of Western Australia  
  
Ms Alyce Merritt

|

Australian Medical Association  
  
Mr Adrian Carson

|

Independent representative  
  
Dr John Boffa

|

Independent representative  
  
Mr Paul Tilley

|

Economist  
  
Adjunct Associate Prof John Goss

|

Health economist, University of Canberra  
  
## Meetings

The committee meets 3 times per year, with extra meetings when needed.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Comprehensive Primary Health Care Sustainability Advisory Committee
contact ](/contacts/comprehensive-primary-health-care-sustainability-advisory-
committee-contact?language=en)

Email the secretariat if you have any questions about the Comprehensive
Primary Health Care Sustainability Advisory Committee.

[CPHCSustainability@health.gov.au](mailto:CPHCSustainability@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

30 June 2021

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

