Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Hospital care](/topics/hospital-care)

[Hospital care](/topics/hospital-care)

# About hospital care in Australia

Learn about the types of hospitals we have, who can use them, and how we fund
them.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About hospital care in Australia&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/hospital-care/about)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/hospital-care/about)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About hospital care in Australia&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/hospital-care/about)

Loading...

On this page

## What hospital care is

Hospitals are facilities that provide health treatment or care to patients.
Patients can be either:

  * admitted – where they have gone through a formal admission process and the hospital has accepted responsibility for their care
  * non-admitted – those not formally admitted, for example patients in the emergency department, or outpatients.

State and territory governments must approve a hospital before it can operate
as one.

The Minister for Health and Aged Care must declare a service or facility to be
a hospital before it can receive private health insurer benefits.

Learn more about [hospital declarations](/topics/hospital-care/our-
role/hospital-declarations "Hospital declarations").

## Who provides hospital care

Australia has both public and private hospitals. Learn more about [how the
system works](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/understanding-the-public-and-
private-hospital-systems) on the healthdirect website.

The Australian Government and state and territory governments jointly fund
public hospitals, but the states and territories administer them. Learn more
about [public hospitals](/topics/hospital-care/about/public-hospitals "Public
hospitals").

Private sector operators own and run private hospitals. However, governments
license and regulate them. Learn more about [private
hospitals](/topics/hospital-care/about/private-hospitals "Private hospitals").

### Find a hospital

Use the [National Health Services
Directory](https://about.healthdirect.gov.au/nhsd) to find a hospital by
location.

## Accessing hospital care in Australia

Anyone with a Medicare card can access free medical treatment as a public
patient in a public hospital.

You can also choose to be a private patient in either a public hospital or
private hospital but will need to pay for treatment yourself – if you have
[private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance "Private health
insurance") that may cover some of your costs. You may also be eligible to
receive a Medicare Benefits Schedule rebate for the private hospital service
you pay for.

Find out more about [what is covered for hospital
treatment](https://www.privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/what_is_covered/index.htm#hospital)
by private health insurance and Medicare.

If you are visiting Australia from overseas you may need to take out private
health insurance. Find out more on the [Private Health Insurance Ombudsman’s
website](https://www.privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm).

### Your rights as a hospital patient

The Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care’s (ACSQHC’s)
[charter of healthcare rights](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/your-
rights) describes the rights that apply to consumers receiving health care in
Australia. It includes:

  * public and private hospitals
  * day procedure services
  * general practice
  * other community health services.

The ACSQHC has developed indicators to use when measuring and reporting the
[safety and quality of hospital care](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-
work/indicators-measurement-and-reporting).

States and territories have also established independent agencies to manage
complaints about public hospitals:

  * [Australian Capital Territory](https://hrc.act.gov.au/health/)
  * [New South Wales](http://www.hccc.nsw.gov.au/)
  * [Northern Territory](https://www.hcscc.nt.gov.au/)
  * [Queensland](https://www.oho.qld.gov.au/)
  * [South Australia](https://www.hcscc.sa.gov.au/)
  * [Tasmania](https://www.healthcomplaints.tas.gov.au/)
  * [Victoria](https://hcc.vic.gov.au/)
  * [Western Australia](https://www.hadsco.wa.gov.au/home/).

## Funding and managing hospital care

Public hospitals in Australia are jointly funded by the Australian Government
and state and territory governments.

Australian Government funding for hospitals is activity-based. This means that
it is based on how much, and what kind of, care hospitals provide.

Visit the Independent Health and Aged Care Pricing Authority website for more
details about the administration of [activity-based
funding](https://www.ihacpa.gov.au/health-care).

Learn more about [our role in supporting activity-based
funding](/node/40791#funding-for-public-hospitals).

### Local hospital networks

State and territory governments set up local hospital networks (LHNs) –
independent authorities that manage services and funding. They may have
different names in different states or territories, for example:

  * local health districts (NSW)
  * hospital and health services (Qld)
  * local health networks (SA)
  * health organisations (Tas)
  * health services (NT, Vic and WA).

The National Health Funding Body has a [directory of
LHNs](https://www.publichospitalfunding.gov.au/public-hospital-funding-
reports).

## Australian hospital data and statistics

We [collect hospital data and statistics](/node/40791#collecting-hospital-
data) to support their governance.

Other places you can find hospital data and statistics include the
[MyHospitals page](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/myhospitals) on the
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare website.

Learn more about:

  * [our role in hospital care](/topics/hospital-care/our-role "Our role in hospital care")
  * [health data and medical research](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research "Health data and medical research").

Last updated:

8 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Hospital care](/topics/hospital-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Hospital care](/topics/hospital-care)

  * [About hospital care](/topics/hospital-care/about)
    * [Public hospitals](/topics/hospital-care/about/public-hospitals)
    * [Private hospitals](/topics/hospital-care/about/private-hospitals)
  * [Our role](/topics/hospital-care/our-role)
  * [News](/topics/hospital-care/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/hospital-care/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/hospital-care/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

