Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Other Medical Practitioners programs

The Other Medical Practitioner (OMPs) programs provide access to higher
Medicare rebates for doctors without fellowship who deliver services in
approved locations and meet eligibility requirements.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Other Medical Practitioners programs&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/omps)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/omps)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Other Medical Practitioners programs&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/omps)

Loading...

On this page

These programs will cease on 30 June 2023

The closure of the OMPs programs was announced in 2018 as part of the
[Stronger Rural Health
Strategy](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/stronger-
rural-health-strategy-factsheets). We are not accepting new applications.

The OMPs programs provide access to higher Medicare rebates for [non-
vocationally recognised doctors](/node/27995#medicare-access-for-doctors-and-
specialists) who deliver services in approved locations. The 4 OMPs programs
are the:

  * After Hours Other Medical Practitioners (AHOMPs)
  * Rural Other Medical Practitioner (ROMPs)
  * Outer Metropolitan Other Medical Practitioners (OMOMPs)
  * Medicare Plus for Other Medical Practitioners (MOMPs).

Existing participants can move practice and transfer between OMPs programs, as
long as they continue to meet the program requirements. The programs will
close to all remaining participants on 30 June 2023.

The June 2023 deadline gives you time to attain fellowship with either the:

  * [Royal Australian College of General Practitioners (RACGP)](http://www.racgp.org.au/)
  * [Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine (ACRRM)](https://www.acrrm.org.au/).

## **After Hours Other Medical Practitioners program**

The AHOMPs program applies to [non-vocationally recognised
doctors](/node/27995#medicare-access-for-doctors-and-specialists) who:

  * provide after-hours GP services through an accredited general practice or medical deputising service
  * attain fellowship within 6 years of registering in the AHOMPs program.

See the AHOMPs:

  * [program guidelines](/resources/publications/after-hours-other-medical-practitioners-ahomps-program-guidelines "After Hours Other Medical Practitioners \(AHOMPs\) program guidelines")
  * [application form](/resources/publications/after-hours-other-medical-practitioners-ahomps-application-form "After Hours Other Medical Practitioners \(AHOMPs\) application form").

## **Rural Other Medical Practitioners program**

The ROMPs program applies to [non-vocationally recognised
doctors](/node/27995#medicare-access-for-doctors-and-specialists) who deliver
general practitioner (GP) services in locations:

  * in categories 4 to 7 of the [Rural, Remote Metropolitan Area (RRMA)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications "Health workforce classifications") classifications
  * in approved category 3 RRMA locations with significant medical workforce shortages.

See the ROMPs:

  * [program guidelines](/resources/publications/rural-other-medical-practitioners-romps-program-guidelines "Rural Other Medical Practitioners \(ROMPs\) program guidelines")
  * [application form](/resources/publications/rural-other-medical-practitioners-romps-application-form "Rural Other Medical Practitioners \(ROMPs\) application form").

## **Outer Metropolitan Other Medical Practitioners program**

The OMOMPs program applies to [non-vocationally recognised
doctors](/node/27995#medicare-access-for-doctors-and-specialists) who:

  * provide GP services in an outer metropolitan area
  * were registered with a medical board before 1 November 1996
  * are enrolled in a pathway to fellowship.

See the OMOMPs:

  * [program guidelines](/resources/publications/outer-metropolitan-other-medical-practitioners-omomps-program-guidelines "Outer Metropolitan Other Medical Practitioners \(OMOMPs\) program guidelines")
  * [application form](/resources/publications/outer-metropolitan-other-medical-practitioners-omomps-application-form "Outer Metropolitan Other Medical Practitioners \(OMOMPs\) application form").

## **Medicare Plus for Other Medical Practitioners Program**

The MOMPs applies to [non-vocationally recognised
doctors](/node/27995#medicare-access-for-doctors-and-specialists) who:

  * deliver GP services in a [District of Workforce Shortage (DWS)](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/health-workforce/health-workforce-classifications/district-of-workforce-shortage)
  * were registered with a medical board before 1 November 1996.

You must complete 20 ‘active quarters’ in a DWS before 30 June 2023 (5 years
in total). An active quarter is a defined quarter of the year where Medicare
billing equals at least $10,000.

Once [Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/) notifies you
in writing that you have completed this requirement, you will continue to have
access to Medicare benefits at the higher rate indefinitely.

See the MOMPs:

  * [program guidelines](/resources/publications/medicare-plus-other-medical-practitioners-momps-program-guidelines "Medicare Plus Other Medical Practitioners \(MOMPs\) program guidelines")
  * [application form](/resources/publications/medicare-plus-other-medical-practitioners-momps-application-form "Medicare Plus Other Medical Practitioners \(MOMPs\) application form").

## **Contacts**

Contact [Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/) on 132 150
for application status, payments, eligibility or location eligibility.

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Other Medical Practitioners programs contact ](/contacts/other-medical-
practitioners-programs-contact?language=en)

Contact us for program guidelines and policy enquiries about the After Hours
Other Medical Practitioners (AHOMPs), Rural Other Medical Practitioner
(ROMPs), Outer Metropolitan Other Medical Practitioners (OMOMPs) and Medicare
Plus for Other Medical Practitioners (MOMPs) programs.  

[OMPs@health.gov.au](mailto:OMPs@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

12 August 2022

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

