Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review

The MBS Review considered how MBS items could be better aligned with
contemporary clinical evidence and practice, to improve health outcomes. The
review ran from 2015 to 2020. The Australian Government is progressively
considering and implementing the recommendations.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\) Review &url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/mbs-review)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/mbs-review)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\) Review &body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/mbs-review)

Loading...

On this page

## About the initiative

The Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) is a list of health professional services
that the Australian Government subsidises. MBS items provide patient benefits
for a wide range of health services including consultations, diagnostic tests
and operations.

Between 2015 and 2020, the [MBS Review Taskforce](/committees-and-groups/mbs-
review-taskforce "Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\) Review Taskforce") looked
at more than 5,700 MBS items to see if they needed to be amended, updated or
removed. It identified services that were obsolete, outdated or potentially
unsafe.

The taskforce also recommended adding new items where needed, along with
broader structural changes to the MBS.

## Why it is important

This was the most thorough review of Medicare since it began in 1984. The
review process is an important step towards safer, more modern care for all
Australians.

## Goals

This review aimed to improve the MBS by:

  * updating the MBS to reflect modern medical practices and ensure patient safety
  * delivering greater consistency and clarity across different parts of the MBS
  * promoting better use of data and evidence to support MBS services.

## Review process

Consultation with stakeholders was central to the MBS Review. The taskforce
received feedback from thousands of stakeholders, which helped inform its
final recommendations to the Government.

The process was as follows:

  * **Taskforce established.** The Government established the MBS Review Taskforce to address feedback from clinicians and the broader community that some services on the MBS did not reflect clinical best practice. The MBS Review Taskforce considered more than 5,700 items on the MBS. It looked at how the items could be aligned with contemporary clinical evidence and practice and improve health outcomes for all Australians.
  * **Committees established.** The taskforce set up discipline-specific clinical committees and working groups, which reviewed a defined range of existing MBS items. The Principles and Rules Committee reviewed the enforceable rules and regulations underpinning the MBS, to ensure they were up-to-date and supported contemporary clinical practice.
  * **Public consulted.** The committees released their reports with draft recommendations and invited stakeholder feedback. The recommendations did not represent the final position on items, but were subject to stakeholder and taskforce consideration.
  * **Committees considered public feedback.** The committees assessed the advice from public consultation and decided if any changes were needed to the recommendations. They then sent [their recommendations](/resources/collections/mbs-review-clinical-committee-reports "MBS Review – Clinical committee reports ") to the MBS Review Taskforce.
  * **Taskforce considered committee and public feedback.** The taskforce considered committees’ recommendations and the information provided by the public to make sure that all the main concerns were addressed.
  * **Taskforce delivered final recommendations to government.** The taskforce delivered [recommendations](/resources/collections/mbs-review-final-taskforce-reports-findings-and-recommendations "MBS Review – Final taskforce reports, findings and recommendations") throughout the MBS Review process, and delivered their [final report](/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-final-report "Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce final report") in December 2020. 
  * **Taskforce developed ongoing system of review.** This will make sure the MBS remains up-to-date.
  * **Government progressively considers taskforce recommendations and implements changes as agreed**. The end result of the process is a better MBS for all Australians.

This work continues under the [MBS Continuous Review](/our-work/medicare-
benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review "Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\)
Continuous Review").

## Clinical committees

The taskforce established over 100 clinical committees and working groups to
give it expert advice about each area of clinical practice that the MBS
supports.

Clinical committees and their working groups examined MBS items in a
particular clinical area, to align those items with modern clinical evidence
and best practice. Over 700 clinicians, consumers and health system experts
participated in these committees, providing detailed advice on how to improve
the MBS.

Clinical committees consisted of a Chair who was a clinician practising in the
area under review, and members including:

  * other clinicians
  * health system experts
  * general practitioners
  * consumers.

The committees sometimes set up working groups and reference groups to
consider targeted clinical issues. Some working groups reported directly to
the taskforce, and others through the clinical committee.

See the [clinical committee reports](/resources/collections/mbs-review-
clinical-committee-reports "MBS Review – Clinical committee reports ").

### Primary Care process

Several groups reviewed Primary Care items:

  * General Practice Primary Care Clinical Committee (GPPCCC)
  * 6 Primary Care Reference Groups.

After public consultation, these groups submitted final reports to the MBS
Review Taskforce in August 2019.

The taskforce noted that there was significant overlap across the 101
recommendations. It then assessed the recommendations individually and as part
of theme groups to create a final overarching report. The section ‘Key themes’
in the [final Primary Care report](/resources/publications/taskforce-final-
report-primary-care "Taskforce final report – Primary Care") outlines this
process.

Developing a consistent report meant that the taskforce’s Primary Care
recommendations:

  * were consistent
  * did not fragment patient care
  * did not create unintended consequences.

You can read the [taskforce reports on Primary Care](/node/17041#primary-care-
overarching-reports), including its findings on each Primary Care Reference
Group report.

## Reports

The MBS Review Taskforce delivered its [final
report](/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-
final-report "Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce final report") in
December 2020. Between 2015 and 2020 it delivered over 60 detailed clinical
reports containing more than 1,400 recommendations to the Australian
Government for consideration. See our collection of MBS Review Taskforce
reports and recommendations.

![Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce
cover](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2020/12/mbs-
review-final-taskforce-reports-findings-and-recommendations.jpg?itok=ngZ2MgkQ)

###  [MBS Review – Final taskforce reports, findings and recommendations
](/resources/collections/mbs-review-final-taskforce-reports-findings-and-
recommendations?language=en)

This collection contains all the final reports, findings and recommendations
from the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review Taskforce to the Australian
Government.

### Implementation

The Government decides whether to adopt the recommendations. Once it supports
a recommendation, work begins on implementing the resulting changes.

Implementation timing may vary because of complexity and impacts on
stakeholders. We understand that many people want an immediate response and
change. However, the taskforce’s recommendations are significant in number,
scale and scope.

It can take 12 to 18 months to implement a change. Changes to MBS items
require:

  * regulatory changes
  * mapping changes – advising practitioners, hospitals, insurers and other stakeholders
  * updating IT payment systems
  * updating MBS Online
  * advising stakeholders through webinars and fact sheets.

### Implementation timeline

### Ongoing consultation

We are establishing Implementation Liaison Groups (ILGs) for ongoing
stakeholder consultation. As we work to adopt recommendations, these groups
help us to:

  * make changes in a way that best meets patients’ safety and care needs
  * make sure there are no unintended consequences.

ILG members are generally professional organisations, practicing clinicians,
and consumer representatives. For more information on ILGs, contact us.

## Status

The Government began responding to Taskforce recommendations in 2016. Through
Budget cycles it has progressively announced changes to the MBS arising from
Taskforce recommendations.

Further details on the changes to the MBS in response to Taskforce's
recommendations are available on the [MBS Review – Government
responses](/resources/collections/mbs-review-government-responses "MBS Review
– Government responses") page.

This work continues under the [MBS Continuous Review](/our-work/medicare-
benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review "Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\)
Continuous Review").

## News and updates

When the Government endorses implementation of a recommendation, we announce
it through:

  * a [newsletter for stakeholders](/using-our-websites/subscriptions/subscribe-to-the-mbs-review-newsletter "Subscribe to the MBS Review newsletter")
  * information about [Government responses](/resources/collections/mbs-review-government-responses "MBS Review – Government responses") on our website
  * implementation advice through news items and fact sheets on [MBS Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/)
  * announcements in the Government’s annual Budget and Mid‑Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce contact
](/contacts/medicare-benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-contact?language=en)

Contact us with questions about the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review
Taskforce.

[MBSReviews@health.gov.au](mailto:MBSReviews@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

4 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review ](/our-work/mbs-review)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

