Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Resources](/resources)
  3. [Apps and tools](/resources/apps-and-tools)

[Apps and tools](/resources/apps-and-tools)

# Service Finder

The health Service Finder is the best way to book a vaccination. Find a clinic
near you that suits your needs. You can use the health Service Finder to book
for yourself, your children, or someone else.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Service Finder&url=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/service-finder)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/service-finder)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Service Finder&body=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/service-finder)

Loading...

![COVID-19 Vaccine Eligibility
Checker](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/service-
finder.png?itok=KxZhWW1n)

Scroll down to access downloads and media.

## Book a COVID-19 vaccine online

Boost your COVID-19 protection and make an appointment on the health Service
Finder.

The COVID-19 vaccine is free for everyone in Australia.

People aged 5 years or older can book a COVID-19 vaccination.

Vaccination is also [recommended for some children](/news/atagi-
recommendations-on-covid-19-vaccine-use-in-children-aged-6-months-to "ATAGI
recommendations on COVID-19 vaccine use in children aged 6 months to <5
years") aged 6 months to under 5 years.

See [who can get vaccinated ](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-
vaccinated "Who can get vaccinated")for more information.

[Find a clinic and book](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-
services)

## Need help to book your vaccination?

Find help to book a vaccination based on your needs:

  * [for people with a disability](/node/18762#booking-a-vaccine)
  * [for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/node/18781#where-to-get-vaccinated)
  * [for residents in residential aged care](/node/19711#how-can-i-get-my-recommended-covid19-vaccinations).

### Get help from a translator

Call the National Coronavirus Helpline on 1800 020 080 and press option 8 for
free interpreting assistance.

### **‘Hey Eva’ – Easy Vaccine Access**

If you need assistance booking a vaccination appointment, EVA can help. EVA is
a simple callback service to help people book a COVID-19 vaccine.

SMS ‘Hey EVA’ to 0481 611 382. A trained call agent from the National
Coronavirus Helpline will call to help book your COVID-19 vaccination. EVA is
available every day from 7 am to 10 pm (AEST) with free interpreting.

[More about EVA](/our-work/easy-vaccine-access "Easy Vaccine Access \(EVA\)")

### More about the Service Finder

The health Service Finder through healthdirect connects you to COVID-19
vaccine providers in Australia. It is the best way to compare clinics, check
availability and book an appointment in one place. Available in 16 languages,
the health Service Finder gives you access to more than 300 healthcare
services including COVID-19 vaccination.

Search results will list the available clinics and booking times. Where a
clinic only takes telephone bookings, you will see a phone number to call.

### Find a booking that meets your needs

Find a health service that meet your needs. Health Service Finder helps you
find and book services that offer:

  * telehealth
  * wheelchair access
  * no appointment necessary (walk-ins accepted)
  * low-sensory spaces
  * languages other than English spoken
  * bookings for patients without Medicare
  * bulk billing.

Resource published:

11 November 2022

Last updated:

31 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

