Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program](/our-work/amds)

[Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program](/our-work/amds)

# About the Approved Medical Deputising Services program

The Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program enables non-
vocationally recognised doctors to gain general practice experience. It also
ensures people can access health care outside of business hours, reducing the
need for visits to emergency departments.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About the Approved Medical Deputising Services program &url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/amds/about)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/amds/about)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About the Approved Medical Deputising Services program &body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/amds/about)

Loading...

On this page

## **What the AMDS program is**

The AMDS program offers non-vocationally recognised doctors – those without
fellowship – the opportunity to gain general practice experience.

Participants can access Medicare benefits for providing after-hours services
on behalf of another doctor (deputising services). They can provide services:

  * at a clinic
  * at a residential aged care facility
  * in a patient’s home.

Doctors on this program satisfy [section
19AA](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/health-workforce/medicare-
billing-restrictions/section-19aa) of the Health Insurance Act 1973.

Read about eligibility criteria and how [doctors](/our-work/amds/for-doctors
"For doctors") and [service providers](/our-work/amds/for-services "For
medical deputising services") can apply to participate.

## **Why the AMDS program is important**

The AMDS program allows general practitioners to deputise after-hours care for
their patients to different service providers. The program helps to:

  * give people access to health care outside of business hours
  * reduce the need for patients to go to emergency departments for after-hours care
  * ensure doctors who work business hours can have time off
  * provide non-vocationally recognised doctors a chance to gain general practice experience in after-hours settings.

## **Who we work with**

We work with [Services Australia –
Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals) and AMDS service providers to administer the program.

## **Related information**

![Cover image for AMDS
guidelines](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2021/09/approved-
medical-deputising-services-amds-resource-collection.png?itok=N0CAzza7)

###  [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) resource collection
](/resources/collections/approved-medical-deputising-services-amds-resource-
collection?language=en)

This collection contains guidelines and application forms for the Approved
Medical Deputising Services (AMDS).

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program contact
](/contacts/approved-medical-deputising-services-amds-program-
contact?language=en)

Contact us for information about the Approved Medical Deputising (AMDS)
program or to submit an application.

[amds@health.gov.au](mailto:amds@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

23 November 2021

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)
  * [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program](/our-work/amds)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program](/our-work/amds)

  * [About the AMDS](/our-work/amds/about)
  * [For doctors](/our-work/amds/for-doctors)
  * [For services](/our-work/amds/for-services)
  * [Guidelines and compliance](/our-work/amds/guidelines-compliance)
  * [Resources](/our-work/amds/resources)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

