Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)
  4. [Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)
  5. [Distribution Priority Area](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa)

[Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications)

# Request a review of a DPA classification

You can request a review of an area’s status under the Distribution Priority
Area (DPA) classification. Find out about the process and see what you should
do before requesting a review.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Request a review of a DPA classification&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa/request-review)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa/request-review)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Request a review of a DPA classification&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa/request-review)

Loading...

On this page

## About the DPA classification

We use [health workforce classification systems](/topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications "Health workforce classifications") to define how
rural or remote an area is. We use these systems as part of programs intended
to improve the distribution of doctors across Australia.

For example, to be eligible for Medicare, international medical graduates who
want to work in Australia as a general practitioner (GP) must work in
practices located in a [Distribution Priority Area](/topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications/dpa "Distribution Priority Area") (DPA) under
certain programs.

## **Review of the DPA Classification System**

On 30 March 2022, the Government published the Review of the Distribution
Priority Area (DPA) Classification report and the Government response to the
review. The DPA was introduced in 2019 to replace the previously used
Districts of Workforce Shortage for general practice system.

The Review was undertaken in late 2021 to undertake a wide-ranging and
thorough review of the DPA mechanism, including evaluating its effectiveness
in identifying areas of Australia experiencing GP service shortages relative
to the needs of the community. The report made eight recommendations to
improve the accuracy and efficiency of the DPA mechanism to better achieve the
goal of equitable access to GP services for all Australians, no matter where
they live. A copy of the report and the Government’s response to the review is
available [online](/resources/publications/review-of-the-dpa-classification-
system "Review of the DPA Classification System").

## Exceptional circumstances reviews

You can request a review if you feel that an area should be classified as a
DPA because there are exceptional circumstances since the last DPA update.

If approved, a GP catchment area can access several workforce programs at
least until the next scheduled DPA review. This includes programs that support
access to a broader pool of doctors to recruit from, such as:

  * [Section 19AB restricted doctors](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19ab "Section 19AB restricted doctors and access to Medicare")
  * [Bonded Medical Program](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/reformed-bonded-programs)
  * [Non-vocationally Registered Fellowship Support Program](/our-work/non-VR-FSP "Non-vocationally Registered Fellowship Support Program \(Non-VR FSP\)")
  * [More Doctors for Rural Australia](/our-work/more-doctors-for-rural-australia-program "More Doctors for Rural Australia Program")
  * [Visas for GPs](/our-work/visas-for-gps-program "Visas for GPs Program").

## Who can request a review

Anyone can request an exceptional circumstances review. The practice must be
in a [Modified Monash Model](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/rural-
health-workforce/classifications/mmm) MM 1 (outer-metro) location.

MM 1 inner-metro locations – such as major Australian cities – are not
eligible for DPA status review. MM 2 to 7 areas are automatically DPA.

Check your area’s geographical classification on the [Health Workforce
Locator](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/health-workforce-
locator) map.

If you would like to submit a request for an exceptional circumstances review,
contact the [Rural Workforce Agency](https://www.health.gov.au/contacts/rural-
health-workforce-australia-rhwa-contact) (RWA) in your state or territory.

## How we consider review requests

The [Distribution Working Group](/committees-and-groups/distribution-working-
group "Distribution Working Group") (DWG) provides independent advice to the
Australian Government on health workforce distribution in Australia, according
to its [terms of reference](/resources/publications/distribution-working-
group-dwg-terms-of-reference "Distribution Working Group \(DWG\) – Terms of
reference").

The DWG considers all changes to DPA and any amendments to the existing DPA
methodology. The group also assesses applications to review and reassess an
area’s DPA status.

## Exceptional circumstances framework

The DWG reviews applications taking the following principles into account.

### Changes to health services, workforce, or health system

When a recent unexpected large change to the health workforce has resulted in
a substantial decrease in health services to the community. It applies when
the last DPA update did not recognise this change.

This may include:

  * changes in services arrangements
  * doctor retirements (without replacement)
  * hospital or other practice closures.

### Patient demographics or changes

When areas have a patient demographic that:

  * is underserviced
  * requires a specialised nature of service
  * has had an unexpected sharp increase in numbers.

The review process also considers changes in an area’s:

  * socio-economic status
  * proportion of senior people
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander population.

### Absence of services

This applies when areas have:

  * demonstrated difficulties in recruiting or retaining doctors
  * difficulties that are measurably worse than similar communities.

This may include a reduction in services resulting from departing doctors
leaving a practice.

## Timelines

The DWG assesses requests within 3 weeks of submission to us. The Minister for
Health decides the outcome of the review.

We will advise the RWAs and applicants of the outcome within 2 weeks of the
DWG meeting, following the minister’s decision.

## Outcomes of DPA exceptional circumstances reviews

We publish the review outcomes, including a summary of the assessment, to
ensure transparency.

We update the [Health Workforce Locator](/resources/apps-and-tools/health-
workforce-locator "Health Workforce Locator") map every year to incorporate
these changes.

[See DPA exceptional circumstances review outcome
summaries](/node/28784#exceptional-circumstances-reviews-and-outcomes)

## Request a review

Talk to your Rural Workforce Agency for help and advice on requesting a
review.

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-default-icon.png)

###  [ Rural Health Workforce Australia (RHWA) contact ](/contacts/rural-
health-workforce-australia-rhwa-contact?language=en)

Rural Health Workforce Australia supports a network of 7 government-funded
Rural Workforce Agencies.

[List of Rural Workforce
Agencies](http://www.rhwa.org.au/ruralworkforceagencies)

Last updated:

21 July 2022

Tags:

  * [DoctorConnect](/our-work/doctorconnect)
  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

  * [About Australia's rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce/about)
  * [How we support](/topics/rural-health-workforce/how-we-support)
  * [Stronger Rural Health Strategy](/topics/rural-health-workforce/stronger-rural-health-strategy)
  * [Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)
    * [Distribution Priority Areas (DPAs)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa)
    * [Request a review of a DPA classification](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa/request-review)
    * [District of Workforce Shortage](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws)
    * [Modified Monash Model (MMM)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/mmm)
    * [Area of Need (AoN)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/aon)
    * [ASGS Remoteness Areas](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgs-ra)
    * [ASGC Remoteness Area](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgc-ra)
    * [Rural, Remote and Metropolitan Areas](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/rrma)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/rural-health-workforce/programs)
  * [News](/topics/rural-health-workforce/rural-health-workforce-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/rural-health-workforce/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/rural-health-workforce/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

