Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)
  3. [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)

[Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)

# Medical Costs Finder disclaimer

This disclaimer applies to the Medical Costs Finder. Learn what data the tool
draws results from and how the data is used.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medical Costs Finder disclaimer&url=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer/medical-costs-finder-disclaimer)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer/medical-costs-finder-disclaimer)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medical Costs Finder disclaimer&body=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer/medical-costs-finder-disclaimer)

Loading...

On this page

## Medical Costs Finder disclaimer

This tool is a general guide to the costs of specialist services. It shows
general information on typical costs, it cannot be used to determine a
person’s actual costs.

To determine your individual cost, you must talk to your health providers (for
example, your doctor, specialist or hospital) about their fees and your health
insurer about your policy coverage before you agree to treatment.

This disclaimer is for the Medical Costs Finder. It is in addition to our
broader site [disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer "Disclaimer").

## Medical Costs Finder data sources

The Medical Costs Finder uses data from the most recently publicly available
financial year as stated on the results page.

The data used in this tool relies on data that may not be complete and, where
appropriate, the data has been rounded to present whole numbers.

### Data for hospital services

The Medical Costs Finder presents in-hospital results based on [Hospital
Casemix Protocol (HCP1)
data](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
casemix-data-collections-about-HCP) we collect from private health insurers.
Insurers receive HCP1 data from declared hospitals following a private
admitted episode of hospital treatment.

The HCP1 data used in the Medical Costs Finder reflects:

  * fees charged for treatments provided in private hospitals to patients with private health insurance
  * what Medicare and insurers paid for these services

### **Data for out of hospital services**

The Medical Costs Finder presents results for the cost of out of hospital
treatments, these are services that do not involve a hospital admission.

Each service is allocated a Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) item number and
medical specialty as part of the MBS data collected by Services Australia
(Medicare). This allows information to be presented showing which specialties
use each item and the associated typical costs.

The focus of the Medical Costs Finder is medical specialists' costs. However,
the MBS items may also be used by other health providers such as GPs, dentists
or pathologists. The results presented includes details of all providers
unless otherwise specified.

The following MBS items has been excluded and are not included in results:

  * items that are solely used by GPs, or other allied health professionals
  * ‘hospital admitted only’ items
  * pathology items (99% of out of hospital pathology is bulk billed)

We also publish other Medicare statistics on a quarterly and annual basis.

### **Medicare Safety Nets and Multiple Services Rules**

The ‘Government pays’ amount shown in MBS item costs details is the usual
basic Medicare payment for patients not admitted to hospital. Sometimes the
actual Medicare benefit is different to the usual basic benefit amount due to
[Medicare Safety
Nets](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-
safety-nets) or the [Multiple Services
Rules](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=IN.0.11&qt=noteID).

If the patient is eligible for the Medicare Safety Nets, the amount paid by
Government will be higher for that patient.

When more than 1 MBS item is provided at the same time, the Medicare benefit
may be lower than usual due to the [multiple operation
rule](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/topics/education-guide-billing-multiple-mbs-items/33231#mor)
(MOR). Medicare benefits affected by the MOR were not excluded from the
overall dataset.

A lower Medicare benefit for additional items reflects the efficiencies to the
provider when multiple services are performed at the same time.

The median patient payment shown on the tool for out of hospital services
takes into account all benefits paid across the year, excluding Medicare
Safety Nets benefits.

### Terms we use

For the Medical Costs Finder, we simplified the description for some of the
MBS items. These abbreviated descriptions provide you with an easier to
understand description of the treatment. The full description of each MBS item
can be found at [MBS
Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
by searching for the MBS item number.

The Medical Costs Finder also refers to ‘clinical categories’. Clinical
categories were created as part of the recent private health insurance reforms
and are hospital treatments described in a standard way that allow for the
grouping of medical services.

### Geographical data presentation

The Medical Costs Finder uses the Department of Health and Aged Care’s
database of [declared
hospitals](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/hospitals2.htm)
to determine the location of a hospital.

The tool can provide results locally, by state or territory, or nationally.

When you search the tool, it collates data from all relevant admissions.
However, it will only show you a result if there is enough combined available
data to ensure a person, hospital or provider cannot be identified.

The smallest region the tool can display results for is a [Primary Health
Network
(PHN)](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/PHN-
Home). The tool uses PHNs to identify geographic areas smaller than a state
other than for Tasmania, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital
Territory which are categorised as a single PHN.

If the tool can’t show you a result for a PHN because those results might make
it possible to identify a person, hospital or provider, it will show you
results for the state or across all of Australia instead.

### Admissions

We refer to hospital admissions in this disclaimer and in the Medical Costs
Finder to help explain the results.

To do this the tool uses data related to what’s called a ‘hospital
separation’.

A hospital separation occurs when:

  * a patient leaves the hospital, or
  * a patient stays in hospital but their admission status changes – for example, they were admitted to hospital as an acute surgical patient but stay in hospital and become a rehabilitation patient

Effectively, the tool treats each hospital separation as a distinct admission
even if the patient doesn’t actually leave the hospital and enter again.

The tool will show you fees, Medicare and insurance payments, and out of
pocket costs for hospital admissions where any gap was paid for the admission
as a whole. This includes costs for all MBS subsidised medical services
provided by a doctor or other health provider during the admission. Health
providers could include surgeons, assistant surgeons and anaesthetists.
Medical services could include diagnostic imaging and pathology.

For example, a patient is admitted for surgical grommet insertion. The MBS
item for grommet insertion is 41632 and it incurs an out of pocket cost of
$425. The patient also has anaesthesia (MBS items 17610, 20120 and 23031),
which costs a total of $210 out of pocket. The tool will therefore show a
total medical out of pocket cost of $635 for this admission.

Hospital admissions in the data for each of the included services are those
where any of a set of identified MBS items was the main or principal item for
the admission. Hospitals identify a main or principal item for each admission
as part of the HCP1 dataset. The tool will show you the MBS items used to
identify relevant admissions for the procedure you have searched.

The tool doesn’t show what patients paid for hospital charges such as
accommodation or theatre costs, or the cost of medical devices. However, idoes
show how much insurers typically paid for these costs.

In most cases we apply further criteria before including an admission in the
dataset to make the results more useful. For example, we exclude admissions
that last longer than is considered typical for a particular course of
treatment.

### Pregnancy and birth

The admitting hospital allocates a Diagnostic Related Grouping, or DRG, to
every admission.

The HCP1 data we are sent identifies both:

  * the main MBS treatment item for each admission
  * the admission’s DRG

The DRG assigned to pregnancy and birth procedures tells us the kind of
delivery and how complicated it was. We use it to divide admissions for
pregnancy and birth procedures into:

  * caesarean sections and vaginal deliveries
  * minor or moderately complex procedures and very complex procedures

Although you might not know what kind of delivery you will have, presenting
the results like this can help you understand the costs associated with
different kinds of deliveries.

Last updated:

8 July 2022

Tags:

  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
    * [Medical Costs Finder disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer/medical-costs-finder-disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

