Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [Medicare compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

[Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

# How to comply with Medicare obligations

As a health practitioner, it is your responsibility to comply with Medicare
obligations. It’s important to do the relevant training and understand the
requirements and laws that apply. We provide lots of education and support to
help you meet your obligations.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=How to comply with Medicare obligations&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=How to comply with Medicare obligations&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)

Loading...

On this page

## **Understand when Medicare compliance applies**

Compliance and eligibility requirements apply to health practitioners who
bill, claim, dispense and prescribe under the:

  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) (MBS)
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS)
  * [Child Dental Benefits Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/child-dental-benefits-schedule) (CDBS)
  * [Practitioner Incentives Program](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program) (PIP).

This includes meeting:

  * [legislative requirements](/node/39418#legislation-and-regulation)
  * your profession and specialisation [education and registration requirements](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/National-Boards.aspx)
  * relevant [accreditation standards](/node/40416#accreditation-and-standards-to-access-medicare-benefits-)
  * [eligibility requirements](/node/40416#accessing-medicare-for-health-practitioners) to bill, claim, dispense or prescribe under Medicare.

Read more about:

  * [when Medicare compliance applies](/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies "When Medicare compliance applies") and who it applies to
  * [accessing Medicare and the PBS](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry "Accessing Medicare for health practitioners and industry") for health practitioners.

## **Understand the laws that relate to Medicare**

It’s important to understand the laws that govern:

  * what can be claimed
  * who can claim
  * the amount of benefits
  * who manages payments and services
  * who administers Medicare.

Read more about the [laws that govern Medicare](/node/39418#legislation-and-
regulation).

## **Complete relevant training**

We provide educational resources and personal support to help you meet your
legal obligations and reduce the risk of incorrect billing under Medicare and
claims for payment under the PBS. This includes eLearning modules about:

  * [Medicare compliance](http://www.medicareaust.com/compliance/Welcome/index.html)
  * [Medicare obligations, legislation and procedures](https://www.dplearning.com.au/cpd-learning/medicare-billing-compliance)
  * [billing Medicare in public hospitals](http://medicareaust.com/PublicHospitals/index.html).

Read more about [what we’re doing to support health
practitioners](/node/42695#education-and-support) comply with Medicare
requirements.

## **Understand constraints and restrictions**

All Medicare items and incentive payments have specific requirements.

### For practitioners

You must provide clinically relevant and medically necessary MBS services as
intended, in line with:

  * [MBS item notes](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * advice from [AskMBS advisories](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/askmbs-advisories)
  * [MBS fact sheets](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Factsheet-Current)
  * [MBS information material](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-benefits-for-health-professionals)
  * [MBS education material](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/mbs-education-for-health-professionals?context=20).

You must provide clinically relevant and medically necessary CDBS services as
intended, in line with:

  * the [CDBS guide](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/cdbs-guide-to-the-schedule)
  * [CDBS information material](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/about-child-dental-benefits-schedule?context=23006)
  * [CDBS education material](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/cdbs-education-for-health-professionals?context=20).

### For prescribers

When prescribing PBS medicines, make sure you:

  * are an authorised health practitioner
  * prescribe as directed by [PBS item notes](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home)
  * understand [PBS medicines restrictions](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/healthpro/explanatory-notes/section1/Section_1_2_Explanatory_Notes#Restrictions)
  * understand [PBS prescriber constraints](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/about-the-pbs#Constraints_on_prescribers)
  * read [support material](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/pbs-for-prescribers).

### For dispensers

When dispensing PBS medicines, make sure you:

  * are an [authorised health practitioner](/node/36864#who-can-dispense-prescription-medicines)
  * understand and comply with [PBS medicines dispensing requirements](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/healthpro/explanatory-notes/section1/Section_1_2_Explanatory_Notes)
  * dispense in accordance with the edPBS dispensing requirements
  * read [support material](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/search?search=dispense&search_page=%2Fsearch).

### For practice managers

If you receive [Practice Incentive
Payments](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/practice-incentives-program),
make sure you:

  * complete the [online training](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/incentive-programs-education-for-health-professionals)
  * read the [guidelines](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/who-can-get-practice-incentive-program-payments?context=23046)
  * meet [ongoing eligibility requirements](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/who-can-get-practice-incentive-program-payments?context=23046).

## **Bill and claim accurately**

You must bill and claim for MBS and PBS items accurately to avoid compliance
action, including using the correct item numbers and [claiming for practice
incentives](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-manage-practice-
incentives-program?context=23046) as required.

To understand your billing and claiming responsibilities:

  * complete [relevant training](/node/42695#education-and-support)
  * see our [overview information and case studies](/resources/collections/medicare-billing-in-public-hospitals "Medicare billing in public hospitals") for Medicare billing in public hospital
  * read Medicare claiming procedures for [health professionals](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/claim-benefit-medicare-benefits-for-health-professionals?context=34076), [pharmacists](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/claiming-pbs-for-pharmacists?context=22861), [dental practitioners](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/claiming-child-dental-benefits-schedule-for-health-professionals?context=23006) and [specialists](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-easyclaim)
  * see our [Medicare billing assurance toolkit](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/medicare-billing-assurance-toolkit) to identify, manage and prevent the risk of incorrect billing under Medicare
  * ask for help from [AskMBS email advice service](/resources/publications/askmbs-email-advice-service "AskMBS email advice service"). 

## Medicare billing in public hospitals

Public patients in a public hospital receive services free of charge. However,
patients may elect to be a private patient and claim Medicare benefits
instead. To ensure appropriate billing, you need to know when patients can
claim Medicare benefits when they attend a public hospital.

Further information can be found on the [Medicare billing in public
hospitals](/resources/collections/medicare-billing-in-public-hospitals
"Medicare billing in public hospitals") webpage.

## **Report incorrect claims**

[Let us know](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-
incorrect-payments "Voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect payments") as soon
as you realise you have made an incorrect claim. You must repay the incorrect
payment amount.

A penalty may apply to any amount owing (the debt accrued). However, no
penalty will apply to voluntary acknowledgements.

We routinely monitor Medicare billing and claiming for potential inappropriate
practice through different compliance activities, including under the
[Practitioner Review Program](/resources/collections/prp-for-practitioners
"PRP for practitioners"). We also follow up on tip-offs that may suggest
health practitioners have [claimed Medicare
incorrectly](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/medicare-
compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud).

## **Keep accurate records**

As a health practitioner, you are responsible for keeping accurate records,
and being able to produce them to substantiate your Medicare claims if we
request them as part of a [review or audit](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-
activities "Our Medicare compliance activities").

Records should:

  * clearly identify the name of the patient
  * contain a separate entry for each attendance by the patient
  * include the date when the service took place
  * contain adequate and clear clinical information
  * be completed at the time of service or as soon as possible after

Read our [guidelines on maintaining good record keeping
standards](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/administrative-
record-keeping-guidelines-for-health-professionals) within your practice.

## **Ask for advice**

If you are unsure, the [AskMBS email advice
service](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/askmbs-email-advice-
service) helps health professionals and practice managers understand and
comply with Medicare claiming requirements.

We give advice on how to interpret and apply MBS items, explanatory notes, and
associated legislation. We [publish advisories](/resources/collections/askmbs-
advisories "AskMBS Advisories") that summarise common issues and our responses
to them.

View more [Medicare contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts "Medicare contacts").

## **How we support you**

We support health practitioners to correctly bill, claim, prescribe and
dispense under Medicare through:

  * proactive [education and training activities](/node/42695#education-and-support)
  * routine [monitoring and data matching](/node/42695#data-matching) of health practitioners’ data
  * [Practitioner Review Program](/resources/collections/prp-for-practitioners "PRP for practitioners") reviews
  * referrals to the [Professional Services Review](https://www.psr.gov.au/)
  * [fraud investigations](/node/42695#fraud-investigations).

Read more about what we’re doing to [help you
comply](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities "Our Medicare compliance
activities") with your Medicare obligations.

Last updated:

1 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
    * [About](/topics/medicare/compliance/about)
    * [When it applies](/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)
    * [How to comply](/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)
    * [Our compliance activities](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)
    * [Voluntary acknowledgement](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
    * [Debts and penalties](/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)
    * [Reporting incorrect billing or claiming, or suspected fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

