Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)

[National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-
screening-program)

# About the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program

The National Bowel Cancer Screening Program invites people aged 50 to 74 to
screen for bowel cancer using a free, simple test at home. Screening can save
lives by detecting the early signs of bowel cancer.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/about-the-national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/about-the-national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/about-the-national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)

Loading...

On this page

## Bowel screening can save lives

Bowel cancer is one of the most [common cancers in
Australia](/topics/cancer/about-cancer/cancer-in-australia "Cancer in
Australia").

The National Bowel Cancer Screening Program reduces illness and death from
bowel cancer by detecting the early signs of the disease using a free, simple
test that can be done at home.

## Why bowel screening is important

Bowel cancer often develops without any symptoms. The cancer can grow in the
bowel for years before spreading to other parts of the body.

Very small amounts of blood can leak from these growths and pass into your
faeces (poo). These tiny amounts of blood are not noticeable just by looking –
that's where screening comes in.

According to a 2017 study by Cancer Council Australia, screening for bowel
cancer can reduce deaths from the disease by between 15% and 25%.

## About the free bowel screening test

The bowel screening test is an immunochemical faecal occult blood test
(iFOBT). It can detect tiny amounts of blood in your poo that can be a sign of
bowel cancer.

You just need to collect 2 tiny samples from 2 different poos. Then return
them in the reply-paid envelope to the pathology lab.

Watch a video on [how to do the
test](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/videos/using-the-bowel-screening-
home-test-kit). Read test kit [instructions in 22
languages](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/translated/national-bowel-
cancer-screening-program-home-test-kit-instructions-other-languages).

You and your doctor receive the results within 4 weeks.

Find out [more about doing the test](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-
screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/how-bowel-screening-works
"How bowel screening works").

If the test finds blood in your poo, it doesn’t always mean you have bowel
cancer. Read more about [understanding your test results](/our-work/national-
bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/understanding-
your-bowel-screening-test-results "Understanding your bowel screening test
results").

![National Bowel Cancer Screening test
kit](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-01/fobt_envelope_front.jpg?itok=jeDqLCUE)

## Who is eligible for the program

You are eligible to do the screening test every 2 years if you:

  * are between 50 and 74
  * have a Medicare card and entitlement type of either Australian citizen, permanent migrant or register as a Department of Veteran Affairs customer
  * have an Australian mailing address.

Find out [if the bowel screening test is right for you](/our-work/national-
bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/who-should-do-
the-bowel-screening-test "Who should do the bowel screening test").

Those not eligible can talk with their doctor about getting a non-program,
private pathology test. Test kits are also available for purchase online or
from a chemist.

## How the program works

You will receive a bowel screening kit in the mail every 2 years. You can also
ask your doctor about getting the kit as part of the [alternative access to
kits model](/our-work/alternative-access-to-bowel-screening-kits-guide
"Alternative access to bowel screening kits guide").

The National Cancer Screening Register (NCSR) supports the program by inviting
and reminding people to screen. NCSR data informs public health policy and
improvements to program delivery. Learn more about the [National Cancer
Screening Register](https://www.ncsr.gov.au/content/ncsr/en.html).

[A hot zone policy](/resources/publications/national-bowel-cancer-screening-
program-policy-framework "National Bowel Cancer Screening Program – Policy
Framework") means people who live in hotter parts of Australia will receive
their kits in the mail during cooler months. This is because exposure of your
collected samples to high heat can affect test results.

Learn more about [the screening process](https://www.health.gov.au/our-
work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-
test/how-bowel-screening-works "How bowel screening works").

## Program frameworks

We deliver a program guided by research and best practice. Read about our
[policies](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/national-bowel-
cancer-screening-program-policies "National Bowel Cancer Screening Program
policies").

## Research and evaluation

The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW) provides program data
and monitoring reports on its website. These include:

  * [statistics on participation](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/cancer-screening/national-cancer-screening-programs-participation/contents/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)
  * [monitoring reports](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/health-welfare-services/cancer-screening/reports)
  * [an analysis of bowel cancer outcomes](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/cancer-screening/analysis-of-bowel-cancer-outcomes-nbcsp-2018/contents/summary).

We regularly evaluate the effectiveness of the program. Read our [research and
evaluation reports](/resources/collections/national-bowel-cancer-screening-
program-research-and-evaluation "National Bowel Cancer Screening Program –
research and evaluation").

## Contact

![National Cancer Screening Register
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/national-
cancer-screening-register-contact.png?itok=u5Fh2Xk_)

###  [ National Cancer Screening Register contact ](/contacts/national-cancer-
screening-register-contact?language=en)

Contact the National Cancer Screening Register to update your contact details
or ask questions about the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program or National
Cervical Screening Program. You can call between 8 am and 6 pm Monday to
Friday, except national public holidays, from anywhere in Australia.

[1800 627 701](tel:1800 627 701)

[1800 627 702](tel:1800 627 702)

[Contact the National Cancer Screening
Register](https://ncsr.gov.au/content/ncsr/en/contact-us.html)

## Learn about bowel health

A healthy bowel is important for your overall health. Learn more about [bowel
health](/topics/bladder-and-bowel "Bladder and bowel").

Cancer Council has information on how to [reduce your risk of developing bowel
cancer](https://www.cancercouncil.com.au/news/7-ways-to-reduce-your-risk-of-
bowel-cancer/).

## Other screening programs

We also have screening programs for [breast
cancer](http://www.cancerscreening.gov.au/internet/screening/publishing.nsf/Content/breast-
screening-1) and [cervical
cancer](http://www.cancerscreening.gov.au/internet/screening/publishing.nsf/Content/cervical-
screening-1).

Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about screening for cancer.

Last updated:

4 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-
screening-program)

  * [About the program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/about-the-national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)
  * [Doing a bowel screening test](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/doing-a-bowel-screening-test)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous)
  * [Your stories](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/your-stories-about-bowel-cancer-screening)
  * [Managing bowel screening for participants](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/managing-bowel-screening-for-participants)
  * [Alternative access to kits](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/alternative-access-to-bowel-screening-kits-for-healthcare-providers)
  * [Resources](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/bowel-cancer-screening-resources)
  * [News](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program-news)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/bowel-cancer-screening-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

