Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Health Funding Facts update

The Australian Government announced a record $503 billion investment in our
universal health system in the 2021–22 Budget. We’ve updated our Health
Funding Facts tool to use the latest figures. Find out more about our key
investment areas.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Health Funding Facts update&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/health-funding-facts-update)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/health-funding-facts-update)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Health Funding Facts update&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/health-funding-facts-update)

Loading...

Date published:

23 March 2022

Type:

News

Audience:

General public

![Health Funding Facts
update](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/images/news/2021/12/health-
funding-facts-update.png?itok=eGA1-hKE)

The Australian Government is improving health outcomes for all Australians,
now and into the future. We will achieve this by investing in better
coordinated and joined-up care in the community and ensuring that Australia’s
health system is sustainable into the future.

Over the next 4 years, our key investment areas include funding for:

  * hospitals
  * Medicare
  * Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)
  * aged care.

## Hospital funding

$133.7 billion in public [hospital funding](/our-work/2020-25-national-health-
reform-agreement-nhra "2020–25 National Health Reform Agreement \(NHRA\)")
through the National Health Reform Agreement (NHRA).

To increase the capacity of our health system, we have dedicated almost $9.9
billion extra (as at March 2022). This came from the National Partnership
Agreement on COVID-19 response.

The NHRA reforms:

  * support better coordinated care in the community
  * focus on prevention and keeping people healthier longer
  * reduce pressure on hospitals.

These systemic reforms will also help improve the experiences of people using
services across the health, aged care, disability and mental health sectors.

## Medicare

$125.7 billion over the next 4 years in [Medicare](/topics/medicare
"Medicare") – Australia’s universal health insurance scheme.

This will guarantee Australians (and some overseas visitors) access to a wide
range of health and hospital services at low or no cost.

## Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)

$43 billion over the next 4 years to support the [Pharmaceutical Benefits
Scheme
(PBS)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/pharmaceutical-
benefits-scheme).

The PBS subsides the cost of medicine for most medical conditions. This means
Australians can access and use a wide range of medicines at a more affordable
price.

## Aged care

$18.3 billion to reform Australia’s aged care system. This is in response to
the recommendations of the Royal Commission into Aged Care Quality and
Safety’s final report and will support once in a generation reform of aged
care.

The reform package focuses on 5 pillars:

  * home care
  * residential aged care services and sustainability
  * residential aged care quality and safety
  * workforce
  * governance.

Use our [Health Funding Facts tool](/resources/apps-and-tools/health-funding-
facts "Health Funding Facts") to see how much funding your local hospital
network and electorate receive from the Australian Government.

Funding information referenced is from the [Health Portfolio Budget Statements
2021–22](/resources/publications/budget-2021-22-portfolio-budget-statements
"Budget 2021–⁠22: Portfolio Budget Statements") and [Budget Papers 2 &
3](https://budget.gov.au/2021-22/content/documents.htm).

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

