Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Minister for Health and Aged Care – press conference – 16 May 2023

Read the transcript of Minister Butler's press conference in Perth about
Medicare Urgent Care Clinic, strengthening Medicare, cancer research funding
and funding for fetal alcohol spectrum disorder programs.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Minister for Health and Aged Care – press conference – 16 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-16-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-16-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Minister for Health and Aged Care – press conference – 16 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-16-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

16 May 2023

Date published:

16 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**MEMBER FOR PERTH, PATRICK GORMAN:** It’s terrific to be here at Rudloc Road
Medical & Dental Centre in Morley, on the border of the Perth and Cowan
electorates. I'm Patrick Gorman, the Member for Perth. It’s wonderful to be
joined by Minister Mark Butler to say something very important about investing
more in Medicare. I'm also joined by my wonderful WA colleagues Anne Aly, the
Member for Cowan, and Lisa Baker, the Member for Maylands. What I think we all
know is that Australians want us to deliver good quality, accessible medical
services wherever we live. And what we know here is we've got successful
centres, that we can do so much more and give access to so many more people.
I’m now going to hand over quickly to Anne Aly, my electorate neighbour, to
say a few more words, and then we'll hand it to the Minister.  
  
**MEMBER FOR COWAN, ANNE ALY:** Thanks, Patrick. Good morning, everyone. And
it is wonderful to have the Minister for Health Mark Butler here today. What's
even more wonderful is that since being elected about a year ago, now the
Albanese Labor Government has delivered on medical care for those who need it.
And the announcement that Mark will make today, right here in Morley, will
benefit thousands of people in both Perth and Cowan electorates, who need
access to medical care, who need access to medications and for whom a strong
Medicare public health system means the world. So I am proud to be a Member of
the Labor Government and to hand over to the Minister for Health to talk about
what we're doing to ensure that all Australians have access to the medicines
and the medical care they need, when they need it.  
  
**MINISTER FOR HEALTH AND AGED CARE, MARK BUTLER** : Well, thanks Anne and
Patrick and Lisa for being here today. Anne and Patrick are playing such
important roles in the leadership of the WA Labor team and in their roles as
important members of the executive in the Albanese Government. Anne obviously
as the Minister for Early Childhood Education and Minister for Youth. And
Patrick as the Assistant Minister to the Prime Minister. So I’m delighted to
be here with them, and also with Lisa representing the McGowan government.  
  
We went to the last election with 2 key promises in the health portfolio. The
first to strengthen Medicare, and the second to deliver cheaper medicines. And
last week’s Budget delivered on both of those promises. In Medicare, we set
out more than $6 billion in new initiatives to strengthen Medicare, as well as
the largest across the board increase to the Medicare rebate since Paul
Keating was Prime Minister more than 30 years ago. The centrepiece of that
budget to strengthen Medicare was a $3.5 billion initiative to triple the bulk
billing incentive for general practice. And that will be so important in
Western Australia, where bulk billing has been under enormous pressure. The
data I published yesterday, regularly published data on bulk billing, shows
that GP visits bulk billing rates dropped by 10% in the past 12 months. So
there is no state in the Federation that will benefit more than WA, from our
initiative to triple the bulk billing incentive that we announced in last
week's Budget. Also, hundreds of thousands of people in WA will benefit from
our announcement to make medicines cheaper for more than 300 chronic disease
medicines. More than 6 million patients across the country, hundreds of
thousands here in WA, will see their medicines costs halved for medicines
they're often on - not just for years, but sometimes for decades - rolling up
to the GP every few months, rolling up to the pharmacy every month and on
every occasion having to shell out money.  
  
As part of our strengthening Medicare package as well, though, we announced at
the last election that we would commission 50 Medicare Urgent Care Clinics
across the country, including 7 here in Western Australia. Those clinics would
be operating 7 days a week, extended hours from 8am to 10pm, and be fully bulk
billed, so at no charge at all to patients, which will include walk-in
patients. The objective was to be able to provide care in the community, when
people needed it, for non-life-threatening emergencies. So emergencies that
needed urgent care: your kid falling off the skateboard and busting their arm
or a deep cut or a very urgent infection, which would otherwise be fronting up
at hospital emergency departments. And I'm delighted to announce that this
clinic at the Rudloc Road Medical & Dental Centre will be the first Medicare
Urgent Care Clinic commissioned by the Albanese Government. It will be
operating by the end of June, I'm assured, and will be the first of the 7
clinics that we will be commissioning over the course of 2023. Five of them
will be in Perth as well as a clinic in Bunbury and Broome. And I'm delighted
that we've been able to pursue a really good, thorough competitive process to
see this clinic – which already has such an important footprint in Morley –
take up the challenge of being an Urgent Care Clinic for the Commonwealth. And
this will not only provide so much more opportunity for people to receive that
care they need in the community, it will importantly take real pressure off
emergency departments, in this case for the Royal Perth Hospital. We know that
every year there are about 4 million presentations to emergency departments
across Australia that are classified as non-urgent or semi-urgent. Certainly
one of the objectives of the Urgent Care Clinic program for the Albanese
Government is to take that pressure off hospitals, and to allow hospitals to
do the work that they were built to do, which is really those life
threatening, often once in a lifetime emergencies, that should be at a
hospital emergency department. So congratulations to the really positive
application that was made by this clinic. And I'm delighted to start to see
the Urgent Care Clinic commitment that we made at the last election roll out
through Western Australia. Happy to take questions.  
  
**JOURNALIST:** How did you decide the locations, so 5 in Perth, one in Broome
and one in Bunbury?  
  
**BUTLER:** The process that we went through before the last election was to
examine, particularly, hospital emergency department waiting times. And in
particular, to have a look at Category 4 and Category 5 triage presentations,
which is, as I said, those semi-urgent or non-urgent presentations to get a
sense of how many cases were going through the front door hospital emergency
departments, which otherwise could be cared for in the community, if we had a
clinic like the one we’ve just commissioned here on Rudloc Road. There will be
only 58 of those clinics across the country, which is an expansion of the 50
we committed to the election. That obviously doesn't provide complete national
coverage. But this is a new model of care for Australia. This is pretty common
in most countries to which we usually compare ourselves, across in New
Zealand, for example, it's a very well established model of care somewhere in
between the standard general practice on the one hand, and fully equipped
hospitals on the other. In America, I'm told there are more Urgent Care
Clinics than there are Starbucks coffee shops. But this is a new model for
Australia. So we want to build out 58 and evaluate them very carefully to make
sure we've got the model of care right, and then see whether we can expand
them. We then went through, after the election, a very thorough process with
state governments, including obviously the Western Australian Government, to
test those locations and to make sure we have the operational guidance right
for these centres. So they won't be open for just standard general practice
presentations. Although obviously the rest of this centre will be, but the
Urgent Care Clinic part of the centre will be only available for non-life-
threatening emergencies. So those things that do genuinely require urgent
care. All the other care that you will be seeking from a general practice, you
will be encouraged to go back to your ordinary general practitioner.  
  
**JOURNALIST:** WA hospitals have been in crisis the past year, we just had
our worst year for record ambulance ramping. I mean, how far will this go? Do
you think that those headlines can be avoided in this year coming?  
  
**BUTLER:** Every hospital system, not just across Australia, but across the
developed world is experiencing unprecedented pressure, you just have to look
at the international studies. But after 3 years of a pandemic, even in parts
of the world that weren't as badly hit by the pandemic as some others, there
is an enormous pressure on healthcare systems, particularly in hospital
systems. People didn't get the care that they probably should have been
getting in the community during lockdowns and other interruptions to usual
activity. So they're presenting at hospitals later than they should, with
higher acuity of need. This is a very common phenomenon right across the globe
and state governments, Commonwealth governments in Australia are working very
hard to start getting us back to something like normal. But it's not going to
be easy. New models of care like this will relieve pressure from the front
door of hospitals. There's no question about that. That's why there's been
such enthusiastic support by all state governments, Labor and Liberal alike,
to the commitment we took it to last election.  
  
**JOURNALIST:** And just got a few questions from colleagues over east. Sandy
Roberts, footy legend, has opened up about his battle with multiple myeloma.
50 cases are diagnosed each week in Australia. Why is there no funding for
research?  
  
**BUTLER:** This is an incredibly sad piece of news that Australia received.
He’s been such a reliable part of our lives for so many years across so many
different sports. Footy, obviously, for people from AFL states like I am or
here in WA, but so many other sports besides. And our thoughts really are
extended to Sandy and his family going through this really difficult time in
their lives. But also our thanks for the way in which Sandy has used his
profile to draw attention to what is a relatively rare form of blood cancer,
multiple myeloma. It does impact a lot of people, but it's about 1% of all
cancers. And Sandy is a pretty typical patient of myeloma: a man in his 70s is
a pretty typical diagnosis. Obviously, there are a range of research projects
that are competitively tested by our research organisations: the NHMRC
medicines. Medicines are presented to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory
Committee from time to time to treat cancers like myeloma. And I know that it
is a constant frustration across the disease spectrum, about whether we're
keeping pace with technology. And that's why we've got a range of reviews
underway now about how we can improve some of those systems to very quickly be
able to assess them, and approve them, hopefully, so that patients can get the
benefit of this turbocharged period of discovery, that we're all living
through.

**JOURNALIST:** And there's a gold standard treatment that's been approved in
the US but has been rejected by the PBS. Is that a concern?  
  
**BTULER:** Well, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee has been an
independent, arm's length body that assesses applications for approval and
reimbursement under the PBS for many, many years. It's an incredibly important
pillar of our health care system and I think underpins one of the world's best
medicine systems. So I'm not going to second guess decisions that I understand
the Advisory Committee talk about potential treatments for myeloma 2 or 3
years ago. I do encourage though, where there are potential for new treatments
to be brought to deal with a disease like multiple myeloma, that the sponsors,
the drug companies that have their treatments, bring them back forward before
the PBAC.  
  
**JOURNALIST:** Can you understand the frustration of patients and doctors?  
  
**BUTLER:** Of course, I hear those frustrations all the time. They're there,
they're deep felt, and they're completely understandable, as I say, across the
disease spectrum and across the cancer spectrum. Over the coming weeks, I'll
be releasing the latest Australian Cancer Plan, which has been the subject of
huge engagement between Cancer Australia – representing all governments across
Australia – and groups like Myeloma Australia and many others, besides, some
of whom represent very big numbers of patients dealing with particular types
of cancer. And some others are relatively small organisations who are
representing relatively small groups like Myeloma Australia. And I know they
struggled to get attention, they struggle to get the profile of some of the
bigger cancer groups. Which is again, why it's such an enormous gesture that
Sandy and his family have made to use his enormous profile and the deep
respect and affection that Australians have for him to use this really
difficult battle in his life, to draw attention to a relatively unknown area
of cancer.  
  
**JOURNALIST:** Minister, on Tuesday, last week, at the states only Juvenile
Detention Centre there was a mass riot, one of the biggest in WA’s history.
After that riot, the WA Premier said that complex medical conditions in
detainees like FASD isn't an excuse for their behaviour. Do you support Mark
McGowan's comments? And do you also accept the medical research to say that
some of these detainees don't understand the full consequences of their
behaviour?  
  
**BUTLER:** I'm not across the details of that riot. I might see if one of my
Western Australian colleagues want to add to the remarks. What I do know,
though, is that it is important that the Commonwealth play a role in dealing
with the consequences of FASD or Foetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder. And there's
substantial funding in last week's Budget to do that, funding that would
otherwise have come to an end because of decisions that were taken in a
budgetary context by the former government. This is something that a number of
communities across Australia are dealing with. I don't have the detail to
respond the specifics that you're talking about.  
  
**JOURNALIST:** Is it responsible for a state Premier to be saying that FASD
isn't an excuse for misbehaviour?  
  
**BUTLER:** I haven't seen the comments. I don't know the case study. What I
do know is that we take FASD very seriously in a Commonwealth level and we put
in place a range of programs that were that were in last week's Budget to
support communities that have significant numbers of, not just children and
teenagers, but adults who are dealing with the consequences of Foetal Alcohol
Spectrum Disorder.  
  
**JOURNALIST:** Patrick, do you want to make a comment?  
  
**GORMAN:** Every Western Australian wants to see our prisons, including
Banksia Hill, to be both a safe workplace and a safe place particularly for
juveniles who are on remand. That is a pretty obvious statement. That's
exactly what the Premier and the Western Australian Government is working
towards over a number of weeks now. I think we've all seen those images. And
we all think about everyone who's involved in those situations. It's not
pleasant for anyone. As the Minister just outlined, in terms of what we're
responsible for, we are doing what we can to make sure there's appropriate
funding for important research and support projects. But one year on from the
end of the Morison Government, I'll lived through year after year of the
Liberal National Party blasting in and saying what the state government should
do, when they weren't doing their own jobs. They weren't doing anything, they
were racking up huge debts. They weren't addressing the serious challenges
that we're addressing today, when it comes to things like Medicare, which had
seen fewer and fewer people with access to health services they need. They did
nothing as childcare fees went up 41% on their watch, we're addressing that.
We will do our job. And I do, again, think Western Australians have seen the
Premier and the state government take responsibility and take the actions that
are necessary in those very challenging situations.  
  
**JOURNALIST:** You mentioned that there were some shocking images out of that
riot. What were your initial thoughts? And what message does that send the
nation that pictures of officers pointing guns at detainees heads on top of
rooves in WA?  
  
**GORMAN:** I think about everyone in those situations, those who work in
prisons are those who are called into support when things do get into a
challenging situation. The individuals who are there on remand, I’m not going
to stand here and judge the decisions. I’m not fully briefed on it. The
Minister has outlined, he's not fully briefed, this is a matter for the state
government.  
  
**ALY:** I might just pick up your point there, because you mentioned
research. And we know that all the research shows us that if we invest in the
first 5 years of a child's life, through good quality early childhood
education and care, that has social benefits for children later in life. It
can carry them through adolescence, it can carry them through their adult
working life. And that's why the Albanese Labor Government has invested in
ensuring that early childhood education and care is affordable for more
Australians. But more than that, we're doing work to ensure that children with
complex issues, including FASD, that we have early intervention programs
through them. We've got 50 Connected Beginning sites, which is a program that
brings together early childhood education, health interventions, all of those
things that wraparound a child. 50 sites by year 2025. We're well on our way
to achieving that goal of having 50 sites by 2025. So if we're talking about
FASD, if we're talking about issues for young people, we have to start from
the very beginning. And I will assure you that Australians now have a Labor
government that not only listens to the research about those first 5 years of
development, but is investing in those first 5 years of development through
the Early Years Strategy, through tasking the Productivity Commission to look
at quality early childhood education and care, and through the ACCC inquiry
into early childhood education and care. So if we want to talk about what
benefits young people, let's start with those first 5 years and we're serious
about that.  
  
**JOURNALIST:** What did you make of the Premier’s comments around FASD?  
  
**ALY:** I'm not going to comment on the Premier's comments. You asked a
question about research into FASD, what I'm telling you is what the
Commonwealth Government is doing for those first 5 years that will have a
social dividend, that will have an impact on young people. Because we know
that quality early childhood education and care in those first 5 years of a
child's life is absolutely critical to their development and it has an impact
on them as they grow older. Thank you.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

