Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Medical receptionist sentenced to jail for more than $253k of Medicare fraud

A medical receptionist from south-eastern Queensland has been convicted after
fraudulently claiming more than $253,000 in Medicare payments.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medical receptionist sentenced to jail for more than $253k of Medicare fraud&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-more-than-253k-of-medicare-fraud)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-more-than-253k-of-medicare-fraud)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medical receptionist sentenced to jail for more than $253k of Medicare fraud&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-more-than-253k-of-medicare-fraud)

Loading...

Date published:

27 January 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

A medical receptionist in Southport has been convicted and sentenced to 18
months' imprisonment by the Southport District Court on Wednesday, 25 January
2023 after pleading guilty to fraudulently claiming more than $253,000 in
Medicare payments under the Medicare Benefits Scheme (MBS).

Following a successful referral to the Commonwealth Director of Public
Prosecutions (CDPP) by the Department of Health and Aged Care’s Benefits
Integrity and Digital Health Division, Ms Angela Rose was charged with four
counts of obtaining a financial advantage under section 134.2 (1) of the
Criminal Code Act 1995 and two counts of attempting to pervert justice under
section 43 (1) of the Crimes Act 1914.

Ms Rose entered a plea of guilty to all charges and was sentenced to four
years imprisonment for each of the four counts of breaching section 134.2 (1)
of the Criminal Code Act 1995 to be served concurrently, with a non-parole
period of 18 months to include time already served.

She was sentenced to three months imprisonment for each count of breaching
section 43(1) of the Crimes Act 1914 and has been ordered to repay the
$253,224.85.

The charges relate to an investigation conducted by the Department of Health
and Aged Care that found Ms Rose unlawfully claimed benefits under the
Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) between 21 March 2016 and 16 August 2017.

As a result of the fraudulent claiming, she received $253,224.85 in Medicare
benefits to which she was not entitled.

This case is another reminder of the real and serious consequences of Medicare
fraud.

The Department of Health and Aged Care takes allegations of Medicare non-
compliance very seriously and all tip-offs are reviewed.

The Department has a range of methods to identify, verify and investigate
inaccurate claiming.

It works closely with health professionals, health businesses, and their
employees to resolve issues, including if they have not complied with
reporting requirements because of genuine mistakes.

Where incorrectly or fraudulently claimed benefits are identified, the
Department will seek to recover those funds and/or refer matters to the CDPP
where criminal prosecution is considered appropriate.

The Department may work in partnership or request the assistance of law
enforcement bodies like the Australian Federal Police (AFP) or State Police
where appropriate.

Anyone with information about suspected non-compliance or fraud of Government
health payments by health providers can make a report via the “Reporting
Fraud” page on the Department of Health and Aged Care's website at
[www.health.gov.au/fraud-tip-offs](http://www.health.gov.au/fraud-tip-offs) or
by calling the Provider Benefits Integrity Hotline on 1800 314 808.

**ENDS**

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### Departmental media enquiries

Contact for members of the media

[news@health.gov.au](mailto:news@health.gov.au?subject=Media enquiry - News
item ID 3086&body=URL - https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.au%2Fnews%2Fmedical-
receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-more-than-253k-of-medicare-fraud)

[02 6289 7400](tel:02 6289 7400)

[View contact](/contacts/departmental-media-enquiries)

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

