Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

[Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

# Nursing and midwifery resources

A list of our resources related to the nursing and midwifery workforce.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Nursing and midwifery resources&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/nurses-and-midwives/resources)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/nurses-and-midwives/resources)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Nursing and midwifery resources&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/nurses-and-midwives/resources)

Loading...

## Health sector resources

![Fact sheet – HELP for rural doctors and nurse
practitioners](/sites/default/files/2022-11/fact-sheet-help-for-rural-doctors-
and-nurse-practitioners.png)

### [Fact sheet – HELP for Rural Doctors and Nurse Practitioners
](/resources/publications/fact-sheet-help-for-rural-doctors-and-nurse-
practitioners?language=en)

15 November 2022

Fact sheet

This fact sheet outlines eligibility criteria and obligations for the HELP for
Rural Doctors and Nurse Practitioners initiative. It also covers frequently
asked questions and case studies relevant to the initiative.

[ ![Screenshot of Health Workforce Data site home
page](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/health-
workforce-data.jpg?itok=WrTFM_IH) ](/resources/apps-and-tools/health-
workforce-data)

### [Health Workforce Data ](/resources/apps-and-tools/health-workforce-
data?language=en)

14 December 2021

App or tool

Our Health Workforce Data site gives you access to reports and summary tables
about the health workforce in Australia.

![Thumbnail image for midwife discussing pregnancy and alcohol with women
video](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/midwife-
discussing-pregnancy-and-alcohol-with-women-best-practice-
example.jpg?itok=9WLARPui)

4:28

### [Midwife discussing pregnancy and alcohol with women (best practice
example) ](/resources/videos/midwife-discussing-pregnancy-and-alcohol-with-
women-best-practice-example?language=en)

23 March 2021

Training

This best practice example shows a midwife using the 5As approach (ask,
assess, advise, assist and arrange) to talk about pregnancy and alcohol with a
pregnant woman. This video is a part of the Women Want To Know initiative.

![Professor Alison McMillan CNMO says thankyou nurses and midwives – cover
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/videos/2021/12/professor-
alison-mcmillan-cnmo-says-thank-you-nurses-and-midwives.png?itok=IzT8AiJ-)

4:08

### [Professor Alison McMillan CNMO says thank you nurses and midwives
](/resources/videos/professor-alison-mcmillan-cnmo-says-thank-you-nurses-and-
midwives?language=en)

16 December 2021

Presentation

Professor Alison McMillan, Commonwealth Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer,
thanks nurses and midwives for their hard work and commitment to providing
care during the COVID-19 pandemic.

![Thumbnail image of Pregnancy and alcohol a midwifes perspective
video](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/pregnancy-and-
alcohol-a-midwife-s-perspective.jpg?itok=XXBq2NhW)

1:14

### [Pregnancy and alcohol – a midwife's perspective
](/resources/videos/pregnancy-and-alcohol-a-midwifes-perspective?language=en)

30 November 2022

Training

Midwife Kelly Langford shares her views about health professionals speaking to
women about alcohol and pregnancy. This video is a part of the Women Want To
Know initiative.

![Taskforce findings – Nurse Practitioner Reference Group
report](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2021/07/taskforce-findings-
nurse-practitioner-reference-group-report.png)

### [Taskforce findings – Nurse Practitioner Reference Group report
](/resources/publications/taskforce-findings-nurse-practitioner-reference-
group-report?language=en)

14 December 2020

Report

This document summarises the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Taskforce’s
recommendations in response to the Nurse Practitioner Reference Group report.

![Post Consultation Report from the Nurse Practitioner Reference Group
cover](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2020/12/post-consultation-
report-from-the-nurse-practitioner-reference-group.jpg)

### [Post Consultation Report from the Nurse Practitioner Reference Group
](/resources/publications/post-consultation-report-from-the-nurse-
practitioner-reference-group?language=en)

14 December 2020

Report

Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce Report from the Nurse Practitioner
Reference Group.

![cover image of clinical assessments
summary](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2021/02/clinical-
assessments-in-pregnancy.jpg)

### [Clinical assessments in pregnancy ](/resources/publications/clinical-
assessments-in-pregnancy?language=en)

March 2019

Standard

The Health Professional Summary Sheets are based directly on the content of
the Pregnancy Care Guidelines and include key information such as
recommendations, information on tests and practice summaries.

![Routine maternal health tests](/sites/default/files/routine-maternal-health-
tests_0.jpg)

### [Routine maternal health tests ](/resources/publications/routine-maternal-
health-tests?language=en)

26 March 2019

Standard

The Health Professional Summary Sheets are based directly on the content of
the Pregnancy Care Guidelines and include key information such as
recommendations, information on tests and practice summaries.

![Core practices in pregnancy care](/sites/default/files/core-practices-in-
pregnancy-care_0.jpg)

### [Core practices in pregnancy care ](/resources/publications/core-
practices-in-pregnancy-care?language=en)

26 March 2019

Standard

The Health Professional Summary Sheets are based directly on the content of
the Pregnancy Care Guidelines and include key information such as
recommendations, information on tests and practice summaries.

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Page 3 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=2 "Go to page 3")
  * [ Next page Next › ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=2 "Go to last page")

[View all
resources](/resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

Last updated:

5 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

  * [About nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/about)
  * [Nurses and midwives in Australia](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/in-australia)
  * [What we do](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/what-we-do)
  * [Support and education](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/support-and-education)
  * [News](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/nurses-and-midwives-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

