Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Protecting Australians against heart disease

The Albanese Government is acting to protect Australians against our country’s
biggest killer – heart disease.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Protecting Australians against heart disease&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/protecting-australians-against-heart-disease)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/protecting-australians-against-heart-disease)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Protecting Australians against heart disease&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/protecting-australians-against-heart-disease)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

5 May 2023

Date published:

5 May 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The Albanese Government is acting to protect Australians against our country’s
biggest killer – heart disease.

As part of the 2023–24 Budget, the Albanese Government will extend the
Medicare rebate (items 177 and 699) for heart health assessments until 30 June
2025.

Each day 438 Australians are hospitalised with coronary heart disease.

Heart disease is responsible for almost 1 in 10 deaths and for 6% of
Australia’s total disease burden.

Many Australians don’t know they are at risk of heart disease, as some factors
– such as high blood pressure or high cholesterol – might not be noticeable
without a medical assessment.

An assessment of a patient’s heart health with a general practitioner (GP)
will help to identify the risk of heart attack or stroke in those patients who
haven’t previously been diagnosed with heart disease.

The Check takes less than 30 minutes with a GP and is the nation’s best tool
for preventing heart disease.

GPs can then work with their patients to make changes to their lifestyle or
prescribe medicines to lower any identified risk of heart disease.

The items will also be amended to remove restrictions preventing First Nations
people from claiming a heart health assessment within 12 months of an annual
health check for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander, supporting the earlier
diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular disease in First Nations people.

**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

“Heart disease is Australia’s biggest killer – one Australian has a heart
attack or stroke every 4 minutes.

“About 2.5 million Australians have a high chance of suffering a heart attack
or stroke in the next 5 years, and many don’t know it.

“Talking to your GP about your heart health save lives, helping to prevent or
catch heart disease early so that patients and doctors can take action to
reduce the risk before it’s too late.

“The former Government would have had these crucial heart health assessments
expire on 30 June 2023 but with about 250,000 people expected receive a heart
health assessment over the next 2 years, our government’s action on this has
the potential to save thousands of lives.”

Tags:

  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

