Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

[Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

# What private health insurance covers

Private health insurance provides cover for health care not covered by
Medicare such as physiotherapy and glasses. Depending on the policy you take
out, it might let you have treatment in hospital as a private patient.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What private health insurance covers&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What private health insurance covers&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)

Loading...

On this page

Depending on the policy you take out, private health insurance:

  * lets you have treatment in hospital as a private patient
  * can help pay medical costs that Medicare doesn’t cover.

You can still choose to be a public patient in a hospital if you have private
health insurance.

## **Types of cover**

Private health insurance policies offer hospital cover and extras cover
(general treatment).

If you want both, you can take out combined cover or mix and match separate
policies to meet your needs.

You can also take out ambulance cover if your state or territory government
doesn’t cover it for you.

### **Hospital treatment cover**

[Hospital cover](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-
insurance-covers/hospital-cover-and-product-tiers "Hospital cover and product
tiers") helps with the costs of treatment as a private patient in hospital.

### **Extras and ambulance cover**

[Extras cover](/node/8981#extras-cover) helps with the cost of out-of-hospital
health services that
[Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/medicare) does
**not** cover.

[Ambulance cover](/node/8981#ambulance-cover) can help with the cost of
emergency transport and medical care.

## **What isn’t covered**

By law, private health insurance does **not** offer cover for out-of-hospital
medical services including:

  * GP visits
  * consultations with specialists in their rooms
  * out-of-hospital diagnostic imaging and tests.

[Medicare](https://privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/what_is_covered/medicare.htm)
covers these services.

Private health insurance policies can’t cover some natural therapies. Ask your
insurer, or see our [fact sheet](/resources/publications/private-health-
insurance-reforms-changing-coverage-for-some-natural-therapies "Private health
insurance reforms – changing coverage for some natural therapies") on changes
to cover for natural therapies.

### Out-of-pocket costs

You may have to pay [out-of-pocket costs](/topics/private-health-
insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/out-of-pocket-costs "Out of
pocket costs") if your specialist charges more than the [Medical Benefits
Schedule (MBS)
fee](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home).
Your out-of-pocket cost is the difference between the amount charged, and the
combined amount paid by Medicare and your insurer.

You may also have out-of-pocket costs for hospital charges such as
accommodation, theatre, or medical device fees. Your insurer may cover some or
all of the hospital charges. Check what your policy includes and what they
[restrict or exclude](/node/8980#restrictions-and-exclusions).

## **Waiting periods**

You might have to serve a waiting period before you can claim some medical
costs. There is a once-only exemption for some mental health services and
treatments.

Find out more about [waiting periods and exemptions for mental
health](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-
covers/waiting-periods-and-exemptions "Waiting periods and exemptions").

## **Cost of cover (pre **miums)****

Your premiums will depend on the policy you take out. Your premiums will be
higher if you want:

  * cover for more health services such as extras
  * a higher [level of hospital cover](/node/8980#private-health-insurance-product-tiers-gold-silver-bronze-and-basic-cover)
  * zero excess or co-payments.

Government rebates and loadings may also affect your premiums.

  * Under [Lifetime Health Cover](https://privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm), if you take out hospital cover when you’re over 30 you may pay a higher premium for the next 10 years.
  * If you’re eligible for the [Private Health Insurance Rebate](https://privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/insurance_rebate.htm), you can use it to lower your premiums.

### **Premium increases**

Your insurer must let you know in advance if your premium is going to
increase. This gives you time to shop around and [compare health insurance
policies](https://privatehealth.gov.au/dynamic/search/start).

Premium increases are governed by [private health insurance
laws](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/private-health-insurance/about-
private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-laws).

## **Problems with your cover**

If you’re not happy with your health insurer’s service, contact the
[Commonwealth Ombudsman](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/).

Last updated:

29 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

  * [About private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance)
  * [What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)
    * [Hospital cover and product tiers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/hospital-cover-and-product-tiers)
    * [Extras and ambulance cover](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/extras-and-ambulance-cover)
    * [Prostheses cover under private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/prostheses-cover-under-private-health-insurance)
    * [Waiting periods and exemptions](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/waiting-periods-and-exemptions)
    * [Out of pocket costs](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/out-of-pocket-costs)
  * [Private health insurance reforms](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)
  * [Operating rules](/topics/private-health-insurance/operating-rules-for-private-health-insurers-and-providers)
  * [The Prostheses List](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list)
  * [News](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

