Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Resources](/resources)
  3. [Publications](/resources/publications)

[Publications](/resources/publications)

# Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce final report

This final report outlines the taskforce’s approach and its key achievements,
with continuous review and reform to improve the Medicare Benefits Schedule
(MBS).

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce final report&url=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-final-report)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-final-report)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce final report&body=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-final-report)

Loading...

![Cover image for an MBS for the 21st century recommendations, learnings and
ideas for the
future](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/images/publications/2020/12/medicare-
benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-final-report.png?itok=meoxRtaC)

Scroll down to access downloads and media.

## Downloads

### An MBS for the 21st century – recommendations, learnings and ideas for the
future

[ Download Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce final report as PDF \-
5.05 MB \- 88 pages ](/sites/default/files/documents/2020/12/medicare-
benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-final-report-an-mbs-for-the-21st-century-
recommendations-learnings-and-ideas-for-the-future.pdf)

[ Download Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Taskforce final report as Word \-
2.08 MB \- 88 pages ](/sites/default/files/documents/2020/12/medicare-
benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-final-report-an-mbs-for-the-21st-century-
recommendations-learnings-and-ideas-for-the-future.docx)

We aim to provide documents in an accessible format. If you're having problems
using a document with your accessibility tools, [please contact us for
help](/request-accessible-format?destination=/resources/publications/medicare-
benefits-schedule-review-taskforce-final-report).

Publication date:

14 December 2020

Last updated:

6 October 2021

Publication type:

Report

Audience:

Health sector

Language:

English

Description:

The MBS Review Taskforce recommends implementing all MBS review
recommendations made to date, and makes further key recommendations centred
on:

  * embedding a consumer-centric focus in the MBS and in any future changes
  * improving monitoring, so data and research can be used to support practitioners in delivering care and underpin future changes to the MBS
  * rebalancing healthcare financing from near-exclusive reliance on ‘fee-for-service’ to complementing with ‘block’ and ‘blended’ payments in order to support more clinically appropriate modes of patient care
  * reviewing continuously to assure the patient and community that safe, high-quality and high-value care is provided by the MBS.

We have published all the taskforce's reports to government in our collection:
[MBS Review – Final taskforce reports, findings and
recommendations.](/resources/collections/mbs-review-final-taskforce-reports-
findings-and-recommendations "MBS Review – Final taskforce reports, findings
and recommendations")

These documents show the almost 1,400 recommendations that the taskforce
provided to the Australian Government for its consideration and response.

Part of a collection:

[MBS Review – Final taskforce reports, findings and
recommendations](/resources/collections/mbs-review-final-taskforce-reports-
findings-and-recommendations)

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

