Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)

[Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)

# About medical doctors and specialists

Medical doctors and specialists become qualified to diagnose and treat
illnesses, disorders and injuries after completing a medical course. They can
specialise in different fields. They can access Medicare rebates, which
reduces the cost of health care to patients.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About medical doctors and specialists&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/doctors-and-specialists/about)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/doctors-and-specialists/about)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About medical doctors and specialists&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/doctors-and-specialists/about)

Loading...

On this page

## **What a medical practitioner is**

Medical practitioners play a critical role in providing high-quality health
care for Australians.

We often refer to medical practitioners as ‘doctors’. They are responsible
for:

  * diagnosing and treating physical and mental illnesses, disorders and injuries
  * recommending preventative action
  * referring patients to specialists, other health care workers, and social, welfare and support workers.

Doctors complete at least 4 years in a university medical school accredited by
the [Australian Medical Council](https://www.amc.org.au/). This is followed by
compulsory 12-month internships to gain general registration. Most doctors
then spend several years training in a medical specialty, such as general
practice, surgery or psychiatry.

The Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency’s (Ahpra) [Medical Board
of Australia](http://www.medicalboard.gov.au/) regulates doctors and
specialists. All medical practitioners must be registered with the board and
meet registration standards.

Read more about [medical doctors and specialists regulation](/topics/doctors-
and-specialists/in-australia "Medical doctors and specialists in Australia")
and [education requirements](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/education-and-
support "Education and support for medical doctors and specialists ").

## **International medical doctors and specialists**

To [gain medical registration in Australia](/our-work/doctorconnect
"DoctorConnect"), international medical graduates who have medical
qualifications from outside of Australia or New Zealand must meet the
requirements for either the:

  * [competent authority pathway](https://www.medicalboard.gov.au/Registration/International-Medical-Graduates/Competent-Authority-Pathway.aspx) – usually for non-specialists, but also specialists with qualifications from the UK, Ireland, USA, New Zealand and Canada
  * [specialist pathway](https://www.medicalboard.gov.au/Registration/International-Medical-Graduates/Specialist-Pathway.aspx) – for specialists seeking specialist recognition or applying for an area-of-need specialist position
  * [standard pathway](https://www.medicalboard.gov.au/Registration/International-Medical-Graduates/Standard-Pathway.aspx) – for doctors not eligible for the other 2 pathways.

[Check which pathway you’re eligible
for](https://www.medicalboard.gov.au/registration/international-medical-
graduates.aspx) with the Medical Board of Australia.

Read more about:

  * [working as a doctor in Australia for international medical graduates](/our-work/doctorconnect "DoctorConnect")
  * [the conditions you must meet to practise medicine in Australia](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19ab "Section 19AB restricted doctors and access to Medicare").

Last updated:

25 October 2022

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)

  * [About medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/about)
  * [Doctors and specialists in Australia](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/in-australia)
  * [What we're doing](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do)
  * [Education and support](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/education-and-support)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

