Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

[Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

# Health workforce classifications

Read about health workforce classifications and how to look them up. The
classifications show how remote an area of Australia is and whether the people
who live there can access health care easily.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Health workforce classifications&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Health workforce classifications&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)

Loading...

On this page

## About workforce classifications

Workforce classifications define how rural or remote an area is, and its
access to the health workforce.

They are sometimes called geographical classifications.

We use these systems to decide how to distribute doctors and meet everyone’s
medical needs, no matter where they live:

  * [Area of Need](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/aon "Area of Need")
  * [Distribution Priority Area](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa "Distribution Priority Area")
  * [District of Workforce Shortage](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws "District of Workforce Shortage")
  * [Modified Monash Model](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/mmm "Modified Monash Model")
  * [The Australian Statistical Geography Standard - Remoteness Area](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgs-ra "Australian Statistical Geography Standard – Remoteness Area")
  * [The Australian Statistical Geography Classification - Remoteness Area](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgc-ra "Australian Statistical Geographical Classification – Remoteness Area")
  * [Rural, Remote and Metropolitan Area](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/rrma "Rural, Remote and Metropolitan Area")

You can see the area classifications on the [Health Workforce
Locator](/resources/apps-and-tools/health-workforce-locator "Health Workforce
Locator").

## Why they are important

It’s important for all Australians to have access to quality health care. The
workforce classification systems help us to understand where we need to
improve health services.

The Department of Health creates policies and programs to distribute the
workforce more evenly. We can direct training, incentives and services to the
right places.

## Data sources

The classifications are based on data from the [Australian Bureau of
Statistics](https://www.abs.gov.au/) (ABS). The ABS collects population data
every five years through a national Census. The ABS also defines distance and
boundaries.

Some of the classifications combine Medicare billing, population, social and
geographical data to map out the areas that need more doctors.

State and territory governments decide how to distribute the health workforce
in their own jurisdictions through the [Area of Need](/topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications/aon "Area of Need") classification.

We define the [Distribution Priority Area](/topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications/dpa "Distribution Priority Area") and the [District
of Workforce Shortage](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws
"District of Workforce Shortage") classifications.

## Historical data

[Contact us](/about-us/contact-us "Contact us") to request historical
workforce classification data files.

Last updated:

14 December 2021

Tags:

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

  * [About Australia's rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce/about)
  * [How we support](/topics/rural-health-workforce/how-we-support)
  * [Stronger Rural Health Strategy](/topics/rural-health-workforce/stronger-rural-health-strategy)
  * [Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)
    * [Distribution Priority Areas (DPAs)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa)
    * [Request a review of a DPA classification](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa/request-review)
    * [District of Workforce Shortage](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws)
    * [Modified Monash Model (MMM)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/mmm)
    * [Area of Need (AoN)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/aon)
    * [ASGS Remoteness Areas](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgs-ra)
    * [ASGC Remoteness Area](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgc-ra)
    * [Rural, Remote and Metropolitan Areas](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/rrma)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/rural-health-workforce/programs)
  * [News](/topics/rural-health-workforce/rural-health-workforce-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/rural-health-workforce/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/rural-health-workforce/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

