Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Australians battling with prostate cancer to benefit from new PBS listing

Australians battling prostate cancer that has spread past the prostate will
soon benefit from subsidised medicine under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(PBS).

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Australians battling with prostate cancer to benefit from new PBS listing&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/australians-battling-with-prostate-cancer-to-benefit-from-new-pbs-listing)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/australians-battling-with-prostate-cancer-to-benefit-from-new-pbs-listing)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Australians battling with prostate cancer to benefit from new PBS listing&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/australians-battling-with-prostate-cancer-to-benefit-from-new-pbs-listing)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

25 May 2023

Date published:

25 May 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

Australians battling prostate cancer that has spread past the prostate will
soon benefit from subsidised medicine under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(PBS).

From 1 June 2023, Australians with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate
cancer (mHSPC) will have access to apalutamide (Erlyand®) through the PBS.

Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in Australia. By the
time people reach 85 years old, as many as 1 in 6 males are diagnosed with
prostate cancer.

Erlyand is a non-chemotherapy treatment option and the first of its kind to be
listed on the PBS for mHSPC.

mHSPC is an advanced stage of the cancer that has spread to other parts of the
body but is still responsive to hormone therapy treatments that lower
testosterone.

Until now, patients have only had access to androgen deprivation therapy (ADT)
and chemotherapy for this advanced form of prostate cancer.

This listing is expected to benefit around 3,000 people each year. Without
subsidy, it would cost patients more than $40,000 per year of treatment.

The PBS listing of this medicine means that eligible patients will pay only a
maximum of $30 per script, or just $7.30 with a concession card.

**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

_“_ Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in Australia.

“The listing of Eryland will be life changing for the estimated 3,000
Australians battling prostate cancer each year.

“Without the listing it would cost patients more than $40,000 per year for
treatment.”

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

