Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)
  3. [Website privacy policy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

[Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

# Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations

Find out how we manage any personal information we collect when you choose to
receive a COVID-19 vaccination.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations &url=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations &body=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations)

Loading...

On this page

The COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary and free. As safe and effective vaccines
become available, the Government will vaccinate as many people in Australian
as possible for COVID-19. If you choose not to have a COVID-19 vaccine, your
eligibility for Government payments won’t be affected. Find out more [about
COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines "Our COVID-19
vaccines") and [getting vaccinated for COVID-19](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination "Getting your COVID-19
vaccination").

This notice explains how we (the Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care) manage your personal information, consistent with our
obligations under the [Privacy Act
1988](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00024) and the [Australian
Immunisation Register Act
2015](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2017C00258), when you choose to
receive a COVID-19 vaccination.

## **Personal information is entered into the Australian Immunisation
Register**

When you receive your vaccination, your personal information will be entered
into the [Australian Immunisation
Register](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register) (the **Register** ) by your vaccination provider. The
provider will enter your:

  * name
  * date of birth
  * contact details
  * gender
  * Medicare number (if any)
  * healthcare identifier (if any).

Collection of your personal information for this purpose is required under the
[Australian Immunisation Register
Act](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2017C00258). This means that the
collection will meet the requirements of the Privacy Act. The Register records
vaccines given to all people in Australia. It is already in existence and use.
Find out more information about the [Australian Immunisation Register
Act](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2016C00915).

## When receiving a COVID-19 vaccine at a Pharmacy

If you receive a COVID-19 vaccination through a Community Pharmacy, you may
also be asked to provide consent for your personal information to be sent to
the Pharmacy Program Administrator (PPA). This is to allow Pharmacies to claim
payments for the vaccines they administer.

The information provided to the PPA may include:

  * your name
  * your date of birth
  * your Medicare number (if any)
  * whether your first or second dose [and if second, whether both were received at the same pharmacy].

The PPA will use your information to manage Pharmacy payment claims, for
general reporting to us, and for Pharmacy compliance monitoring. We may share
your personal information with the PPA for the purposes of compliance or fraud
investigations.

The PPA will handle your data in compliance with the Privacy Act and in line
with our strong privacy requirements. You can read their [Privacy
Policy](https://www.ppaonline.com.au/privacy-policy) online.

## **We will use and disclose your personal information to** :

  * monitor vaccination coverage and effectiveness across Australia
  * collect, analyse and publish statistics and other information about vaccination coverage
  * identify any parts of Australia at risk during disease outbreaks because of the number of unvaccinated individuals in those parts
  * advise an individual when they are, or were, due to receive a vaccine
  * provide evidence of vaccination status.

These and other purposes are listed in the Australian Immunisation Register
Act. We only use and disclose personal information contained in the Register
in accordance with the Australian Immunisation Register Act and the Privacy
Act.

State and territory health entities may securely access information in the
Register where it is permitted by the Australian Immunisation Register Act.

## **Reporting on the COVID-19 vaccine rollout**

We will use information from the Register that we have **de‑identified** to
generate reports that include monitoring:

  * dose wastage, delivery, and service capacity
  * vaccine coverage across Australia with reference to vaccine brand, location, stock availability, and statistical population data. 

The de-identified data will be transferred into a Vaccine Data Solution (
**Data Solution** ), that is, a software solution for monitoring coverage and
logistics for COVID‑19 vaccines. The Data Solution will then generate these
reports. Those reports will only contain de‑identified information.

We may disclose these reports to other entities, including state and territory
government agencies, if it is necessary for the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines.

## **How your information is stored**

Information in the Register is regularly uploaded from [Services
Australia’s](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/) IT environment and is
stored in our Enterprise Data Warehouse. The Enterprise Data Warehouse is an
established platform that supports the Department of Health and Aged Care’s
storage of data in a secure environment within Australia. No personal
information is stored or sent overseas.

De-identified data from the Enterprise Data Warehouse will be transferred to
the Data Solution. The Data Solution (containing only **de-identified**
information) will be hosted on cloud services provided by Amazon Web Services
and using software provided by Salesforce. The Data Solution will be hosted in
Australia.

The Pharmacy Program Administrator will store personal information collected
as part of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout in their secure, on-shore IT
environment. They may provide personal information to us for the purposes of
compliance and payment claiming. They may provide aggregate and **de-
identified** reports (such as number of people who received vaccines at
pharmacies in an area) to us on request.

## **Can I opt out from being included in the Register?**

Once you have been vaccinated, including where you have been vaccinated
against COVID-19, you cannot opt out of your information being put into the
Register where the Australian Immunisation Register Act requires reporting of
the information.

However, you can opt out of having your personal information further disclosed
from the Register. You can find further information about this on [Services
Australia’s
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register/update-your-details-your-medicare-card-and-air), where
you will also find the [opt-out
form](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/forms/im017).

## **You can access or correct your information**

You can access your immunisation history contained on the Australian
Immunisation Register through your [Medicare Online
account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-
online-accounts), through
[myGov](https://my.gov.au/LoginServices/main/login?execution=e2s1), the
[Medicare Express Plus
app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-
plus-medicare-mobile-app), or your [My Health
Record](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/).

Alternatively, you can [contact Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register/how-get-immunisation-history-statement) to access your
information on the Register. This includes by calling the [Australian
Immunisation Register
line](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us/phone-
us#acir) on 1800 653 809 (Monday to Friday 8am to 5pm).

If your details on the Register are incorrect you should contact Services
Australia.

## **Complaints**

If you wish to make a complaint about the way your personal information has
been managed, you can lodge a complaint with us using the details listed
below. Please provide as much information as possible so we can investigate
and respond.

We will:

  * let you know that we have received your complaint
  * do our best to respond within 30 days of receiving your complaint. If we can’t respond within this timeframe we will let you know.

If you are not satisfied with our response, you can contact the [Office of the
Australian Information Commissioner.](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/privacy-
complaints/)

## **Contact details**

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Departmental privacy enquiries ](/contacts/departmental-privacy-
enquiries?language=en)

Contact to find out more about privacy within the department, or to make a
privacy enquiry or complaint.

Privacy officer:

[privacy@health.gov.au](mailto:privacy@health.gov.au)

Phone:

[02 6289 1555](tel:02 6289 1555)

Freecall:

[1800 020 103](tel:1800 020 103)

Last updated:

9 July 2022

Tags:

  * [About the department](/topics/about-the-department)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
    * [Privacy impact assessment register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-impact-assessment-register)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care reform webinars](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-aged-care-reform-webinars)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care announcements and newsletters](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-aged-care-sector-newsletters-and-alerts)
    * [Privacy notice for consumers using the booking platform for COVID 19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-consumers-using-the-commonwealth-procured-booking-platform-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 training](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-training)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 mental health updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-mental-health-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccines update](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccines-update)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 weekly updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-updates-for-gps)
    * [Privacy notice for Health Portfolio Federal Budget Information](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-health-portfolio-federal-budget-information)
    * [Privacy notice for MRFF newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-mrff-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for National Immunisation Program (NIP) updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-national-immunisation-program-nip-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS – participants and family members](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross-participants-and-family-members)
    * [Collection notice for the Clinician Vaccine Integration Platform (CVIP)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/collection-notice-for-the-clinician-vaccine-integrated-platform-cvip)
    * [Privacy notice for the contact a minister form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-contact-a-minister-form)
    * [Privacy policy for the COVIDSafe app](https://covidsafe.gov.au/privacy-policy.html)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-patients)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-patients)
    * [Privacy Notice for Australian Immunisation Handbook updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-australian-immunisation-handbook-updates)
    * [Privacy Notice for the Register of Interest for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-register-of-interest-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines updates for multicultural communities](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-and-covid-19-vaccines-updates-for-multicultural-communities)
    * [Privacy notice for My Aged Care Learning Management System (MAClearning)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-my-aged-care-learning-management-system-maclearning)
    * [Privacy notice for the COVID-19 pandemic response workforce expression of interest form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-covid-19-pandemic-response-workforce-expression-of-interest-form)
    * [Privacy notice for the Government Provider Management System](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-gpms)
    * [Privacy notice for the MBS Review newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for the MRAC communique](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee-communique)
    * [Privacy notice for the Re-engaging Volunteers into Residential Aged Care Facilities program](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-re-engaging-volunteers-into-residential-aged-care-facilities-program)
    * [Privacy notice for vaccination providers using the COVID-19 Vaccine Administration System (CVAS)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-vaccination-providers-using-the-covid-19-vaccine-administration-system-cvas)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

