Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# First Western Australia Medicare Urgent Care Clinic provider selected

The first Medicare Urgent Care Clinic (Medicare UCC) provider in Western
Australia has been selected following an Expression of Interest process.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=First Western Australia Medicare Urgent Care Clinic provider selected&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/first-western-australia-medicare-urgent-care-clinic-provider-selected)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/first-western-australia-medicare-urgent-care-clinic-provider-selected)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=First Western Australia Medicare Urgent Care Clinic provider selected&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/first-western-australia-medicare-urgent-care-clinic-provider-selected)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

16 May 2023

Date published:

16 May 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The first Medicare Urgent Care Clinic (Medicare UCC) provider in Western
Australia has been selected following an Expression of Interest process.

Rudloc Road Medical & Dental Morley will start seeing patients from late June
2023.

The clinic will be among the first Medicare UCCs to open in Australia and will
manage the urgent care needs of patients across Perth.

It will be open extended hours, 7 days a week, with urgent care fully bulk
billed, patients will able to see a doctor or nurse and access imaging and
pathology services.

The clinic will ease pressure on the Royal Perth Hospital, allowing them to
concentrate on higher priority emergencies.

Work is under way to establish a further 6 clinics in WA including:
Rockingham, Joondalup, Murdoch, Midland, Bunbury and Broome.

The Commonwealth will continue to work closely with the Western Australian
Government and WA Primary Health Alliance to deliver these further Medicare
UCCs, which will open in 2023.

**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

“The Medicare UCC at Rudloc Road Medical & Dental Morley is going to make a
real difference to patients across Perth.

“When you have a deep cut, or when your child breaks their arm, the Perth
Medicare UCC will be there to avoid patients having to spend hours in a
hospital waiting room.

“This is just the first UCC provider location to be named in WA. There will be
seven Medicare UCCs in Western Australia.”

**Quotes attributable to Minister Sanderson:**

“GP urgent care clinics have an important role to play in providing and
alternative to emergency departments and we welcome the Albanese Government’s
swift delivery of the first Medicare UCC for WA.

“Patients who do not need to attend an emergency department but who urgently
need to see a doctor will be able to get fully bulk-billed care closer to home
in Morley.”  

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Medicare Urgent Care Clinics](/our-work/medicare-urgent-care-clinics)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

