Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)

[Ministers]()

# The Hon Ged Kearney MP

Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care  

Learn about Minister Kearney and her responsibilities in the Health portfolio.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=The Hon Ged Kearney MP&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=The Hon Ged Kearney MP&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-
mp_1.jpg?itok=uQuoas5f)

**The Hon Ged Kearney MP**  
Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care

## Biography

Ged Kearney is the Federal Member for Cooper. Ged has served in the parliament
since March 2018, when she was elected in a by-election. She is the first
woman to hold the seat.

Ged is the Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care.

[Read Minister Kearney's biography](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-
mp/minister-kearneys-biography "Minister Kearney’s biography")

## Contact

[ ](http://www.facebook.com/gedkearneylabor)

[ ](https://www.twitter.com/gedkearney)

[Contact minister](/ministers/contact-minister "Contact a minister")

## Latest media

Read the latest media releases, speeches and transcripts.

[Latest media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media "Minister Kearney's
media")

  * ![The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp_1.jpg?h=5273c5c2&itok=v0t8PvCo)

###  [Assistant Minister Kearney doorstop in Nowra - 18 May
2023](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/assistant-minister-kearney-
doorstop-in-nowra-18-may-2023?language=en)

18 May 2023

Transcript

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister Kearney's doorstop on strengthening
Medicare; bulk billing incentive; aged care pay rise; Palliative Care Week;
cheaper medicines and 60 day dispensing.

  * ![The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp_1.jpg?h=5273c5c2&itok=v0t8PvCo)

###  [National first to transform primary care for nurse
practitioners](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/national-first-to-
transform-primary-care-for-nurse-practitioners?language=en)

16 May 2023

Media release

A national first plan for nurse practitioners in Australia’s health and aged
care system has been released to strengthen and enhance multidisciplinary,
person-centred care in primary health.

  * ![Portrait of Mark Butler](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-mark-butler-mp_0.jpg?h=5273c5c2&itok=CC6I8Hgx)

###  [Eliminating HIV transmission and ensuring health equity for LGBTIQA+
Australians](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/eliminating-hiv-
transmission-and-ensuring-health-equity-for-lgbtiqa-australians?language=en)

3 May 2023

Media release

The Australian Government is delivering on its commitment to eliminate HIV
transmission in Australia, and address the health disparities experienced by
LGBTIQA+ people.

  * ![The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp_1.jpg?h=5273c5c2&itok=v0t8PvCo)

###  [$7.9 million to improve healthcare with more collaborative
research](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/79-million-to-improve-
healthcare-with-more-collaborative-research?language=en)

2 May 2023

Media release

Projects aiming to improve leadership equity in health care, mental health,
children’s wellbeing and patient safety are among those awarded $7.9 million
in grants for research conducted in collaboration with health sector partners
across Australia.

  * ![The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp_1.jpg?h=5273c5c2&itok=v0t8PvCo)

###  [Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care, Doorstop - 21 April
2023](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/assistant-minister-for-health-
and-aged-care-doorstop-21-april-2023?language=en)

21 April 2023

Transcript

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister Kearney's Doorstop at Kardinia
Health, Geelong on new Endometriosis and Pelvic Pain Clinic in Geelong; pelvic
mesh health care

  * ![The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp_1.jpg?h=5273c5c2&itok=v0t8PvCo)

###  [Game on! 24th World Transplant Games kick off in Perth](/ministers/the-
hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/game-on-24th-world-transplant-games-kick-off-in-
perth?language=en)

16 April 2023

Media release

The 24th World Transplant Games have kicked off today in Perth, with 1500
athletes and their supporters from almost 50 countries coming together to
compete and celebrate the gift of life.

  * ![The Hon Anika Wells MP](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-anika-wells-mp_3.jpg?itok=iiGnl2M4)

###  [Game on! 24th World Transplant Games kick off in Perth](/ministers/the-
hon-anika-wells-mp/media/game-on-24th-world-transplant-games-kick-off-in-
perth?language=en)

16 April 2023

Media release

The 24th World Transplant Games have kicked off today in Perth, with 1500
athletes and their supporters from almost 50 countries coming together to
compete and celebrate the gift of life.

  * ![The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp_1.jpg?h=5273c5c2&itok=v0t8PvCo)

###  [Support for high-risk communities for stillbirth and miscarriage
bereavement care](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/support-for-high-
risk-communities-for-stillbirth-and-miscarriage-bereavement-care?language=en)

14 April 2023

Media release

The Albanese Labor Government has awarded more than $5.1 million in grants to
organisations to support high quality bereavement care to women and families
following stillbirth or miscarriage.

  * ![The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp_1.jpg?h=5273c5c2&itok=v0t8PvCo)

###  [Research boost for chronic disease prevention in the Asia-
Pacific](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/research-boost-for-chronic-
disease-prevention-in-the-asia-pacific?language=en)

12 April 2023

Media release

$5.7 million in research grants has been awarded to four projects aiming to
foster research partnerships between institutions in Australia and the Asia-
Pacific region and improve health outcomes for chronic conditions.

  * ![The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/sites/default/files/styles/square/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp_1.jpg?h=5273c5c2&itok=v0t8PvCo)

###  [Interview with Assistant Minister Kearney and Greg Jennett, ABC
Afternoon Briefing – 11 April 2023 ](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-
mp/media/interview-with-assistant-minister-kearney-and-greg-jennett-abc-
afternoon-briefing-11-april-2023?language=en)

11 April 2023

Transcript

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister Kearney's interview with Greg
Jennett on the Voice to Parliament, vaping and Chinese trade tariffs.

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Page 3 ](?page=2 "Go to page 3")
  * [ Page 4 ](?page=3 "Go to page 4")
  * [ Page 5 ](?page=4 "Go to page 5")
  * [ Next page ›› ](?page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?page=4 "Go to last page")

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

