Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Minister for Health and Aged Care – transcript – ABC 7.30 – 2 May 2023

Read the transcript of Minister Butler's interview with David Speers on vaping
and Medicare.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Minister for Health and Aged Care – transcript – ABC 7.30 – 2 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-transcript-abc-730-2-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-transcript-abc-730-2-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Minister for Health and Aged Care – transcript – ABC 7.30 – 2 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-transcript-abc-730-2-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

2 May 2023

Date published:

3 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**DAVID SPEERS, HOST:** Welcome to the program.

**MINISTER FOR HEALTH AND AGED CARE, MARK BUTLER:** Thank you.

**SPEERS:** Vaping is so prolific right now. Realistically, what is it going
to take to stop young people getting their hands on vapes?

**BUTLER:** Concerted comprehensive action by all levels of government. What I
tried to do today was to set out that sense of determination but also urgency
that all Health Ministers have. This is a public health menace, particularly
impacting younger Australians. It is a deliberate strategy, I think, of Big
Tobacco to create a new generation of nicotine addicts, and we simply can't
stand by and let that happen.

**SPEERS:** So will you have to beef up border checks?

**BUTLER:** We’ll have to beef up border checks, and we're committed to doing
that so that the only way companies will be able to import vapes is to
demonstrate that they will be for sale through a pharmacy on prescription by a
health professional, and that they comply with new standards - no more
bubblegum flavours, no more pink unicorns on the wrapping, it will be
pharmaceutical with plain flavours and not disposable.

**SPEERS:** And on that are you expecting police then to be checking people
who are vaping to see if they have a prescription?

**BUTLER:** We're not going after people who vape, this is something very much
focused on vendors. This is the convenience stores, these are the vape stores
that too often, frankly, are setting up shop down the road from schools
because they know that it's their market. This is very much focused on vendors
to stop them doing what I think the community accepts is the wrong thing.

**SPEERS:** You're going to allow all GPs to prescribe nicotine vapes, but
there are currently no nicotine vaping products that are approved by the
Therapeutic Goods Administration. The Royal Australian College of GPs told us
they prefer to have an approved product to prescribe. So, what are you
expecting doctors to do here, prescribe unapproved products?

**BUTLER:** There will be products that are assessed against standards put in
place by the TGA. And at the end of the day, a sponsor needs to submit a
product for approval...

**SPEERS:** Have any companies done that?

**BUTLER:** I'm not aware of them doing that.

**SPEERS:** Are you inviting the tobacco companies to seek an approval for
these nicotine products from the TGA?

**BUTLER:** I think that's a long, laborious process, and at the end of the
day, I'm not going to wait for sponsors to do that. If there are products in
the marketplace that comply with the standards I've just set out: they need to
be free of chemicals, and the TGA list is particularly dangerous, they need to
be at particular nicotine levels, as well as all of the other things I set out
around the flavouring and presentation. If they are compliant with those
standards, and can be prescribed by doctors as a smoking cessation device or
to help people with nicotine addiction, that is something that will be able to
be imported and sold through pharmacies only.

**SPEERS:** Okay. You’ve also announced a further tax hike on cigarettes today
as well to raise more than $3 billion over the next few years. What impact
will that have on smoking rates? Or is this more a revenue raiser?

**BUTLER:** This is principally a health measure, we know from the last time
we were in government doing this that price signal in tobacco is an important
addition to a panoply of measures designed to drive down tobacco. And the
problem with excise over the last couple of years is that it actually started
to lag inflation. So relative to other products in the market, it was becoming
cheaper to smoke cigarettes. And we think particularly at a time when we want
to redouble our efforts to drive down tobacco rates, and also combat, frankly,
the risk that people will transition from vapes on to cigarettes, putting that
price signal back in the market is important.

**SPEERS:** But is there an inconsistency or will there be an inconsistency? I
mean, why should it be legal to buy nicotine cigarettes without a prescription
but under your plan you would need a prescription to buy nicotine vapes?

**BUTLER:** I think if 100 years ago, governments knew what they know now
about smoking - that it’s killed millions and millions of people across the
world, they might not have let smoking take hold in the community...

**SPEERS:** But you’re in government now...

**BUTLER:** For decades we've been trying to combat tobacco and drive down
those smoking rates. Vaping is still an emerging technology, and I think what
governments at all levels now recognise is that we've got the chance to nip
this in the bud. It is going to be difficult because it really has flourished
over the last two or three years. But it is different in nature to
cigarettes...

**SPEERS:** Why, just explain that to us, because under what you're suggesting
here, you need a prescription for nicotine vapes, no prescription for
cigarettes. Why?

**BUTLER:** Because cigarettes have very deep roots in the community, they
have been around for decades, they are terrible for your health, they remain a
major killer of Australians and people across the world. But I think tobacco
control experts recognise that they do have deep roots in the community. And
it requires quite a different, more sophisticated suite of measures to drive
down tobacco use...

**SPEERS:** Because there'd be too much of a black market for cigarettes, is
that the problem?

**BUTLER:** But also because there are deeply ingrained habits that some
people have had for many decades...

**SPEERS:** So because so many people are hooked, you can't really move to a
prescription?

**BUTLER:** And because this is a product with very deep roots in our
community that goes back well before any of our lifetimes. So, it has been a
long, hard effort to drive down tobacco use and in the space of a few decades
we've got that down from 30 or 40% of adults smoking, to just 10%. We're
determined to get that number down even further, while at the same time making
sure that there's not a new generation of nicotine addicts created through
vaping.

**SPEERS:** Let's go to the alarming fall in bulk billing rates as you call
them today, will next week's Budget include measures to make seeing a doctor
more affordable?

**BUTLER:** I'm not going to reveal measures in the Budget. We've already
revealed some of the strengthening Medicare measures through the National
Cabinet meeting the Prime Minister had with Premiers last Friday. They are
strong reform signals about creating a Medicare system that's fit for the 21st
century. But we also recognise there are financial pressures, particularly on
general practice. And we are going to have more to say about strengthening
Medicare next Tuesday night.

**SPEERS:** Well, you said that the GP system is in its worst shape in 40
years, and you are concerned about the number of, well, the falling number of
medical graduates who are choosing general practice? Is the Medicare rebate
paid to GPs right now adequate?

**BUTLER:** David, you only have to wait to Tuesday night, we know that there
is financial pressure on general practice, particularly because of six years
of a freeze on the Medicare rebate, under the former government. So that’s
been front of mind. It's obviously something that doctors' groups and others
have been talking to us about...

**SPEERS:** Pretty strong argument...

**BUTLER:** You are going to have to wait until Tuesday night to see the full
range of measures that we put in response to the Strengthening Medicare
Taskforce.

**SPEERS:** Okay, just finally, the South Australian Premier told this program
last night that the $2.2 billion you've announced will make a difference. This
is what you've announced so far. But he said the truth is, we're going to need
a lot more to address the cratering of primary health and access to GPs, are
you prepared to spend a lot more than that $2.2 billion?

**BUTLER:** He's right. It's not enough in and of itself. It's an important
start because it signals we're not just going to put more money into the
existing system, which is not really serving the needs of patients today. So,
there will be more in the Budget next week. But I also have said this won't be
fixed in one Budget. This is a long-term effort to get Medicare back into the
shape we've always wanted it to be in. And it's not quick to turn around the
number of medical graduates who are choosing general practice as a career, we
have to turn that around, but that won't happen in one Budget either.

**SPEERS:** Mark Butler, thank you.

**BUTLER:** Thanks David.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Smoking and tobacco](/topics/smoking-and-tobacco)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

