Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Assistant Minister McBride – press conference in Lismore –16 May 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minster McBride's press conference in Lismore
about Strengthening Medicare, cheaper medicines, Medicare Urgent Care Clinics,
and the Lismore floods.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Assistant Minister McBride – press conference in Lismore –16 May 2023 &url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-press-conference-in-lismore-16-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-press-conference-in-lismore-16-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Assistant Minister McBride – press conference in Lismore –16 May 2023 &body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-press-conference-in-lismore-16-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

16 May 2023

Date published:

16 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** I'm so pleased to be back in Lismore
today at the GP Super Clinic. Our Government has made the biggest investment
in bulk billing in the history of Medicare. We've invested $3.5 billion to
triple the bulk billing incentive so that practices like this GP Super Clinic
here can continue to bulk bill patients. We know the further you live outside
of a big city the worse health outcomes are likely to be. We also know the
pressures that communities like Lismore have faced to natural disasters,
especially the floods last March, we're determined to make sure that wherever
you live, and whatever your bank balance, that you can afford quality care,
close to home when you need it. This will also help reduce pressure on our
overstretched hospital emergency departments, which are just clogged up with
people who could have seen a GP, if they could afford to see one close to
home.

I'm so pleased in a community like Lismore to be standing outside of GP Super
Clinic, a former Labor government initiative, that has seen people in this
community, all being bulk billed, that's children under 16, older people,
everyone who walks in through the doors of this GP Super Clinic is bulk
billed. That's what we want to see in places like Lismore, and right around
Australia.

**JOURNALIST** What about the other GPs is that just because there are
incentives are they definitely going to take this up, if they've already got
wait lists out the door?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** So I was at the Rural Health Conference
in Tasmania over the weekend, and I spoke to RT, the incoming president of the
Rural Doctors Association of Australia, and what he said to me was that some
practices had been forced to stop bulk billing, because they didn't think it
was viable, then couldn't afford to, and some practices were at that point
where they thought they may not be able to continue bulk billing. And he was
very confident that this tripling of the bulk billing incentive with a $3.5
billion investment, would mean the practices that had reluctantly had to stop
bulk billing, or were thinking that they couldn't continue bulk billing would
be able to continue to do so.

**JOURNALIST** And so this GP has taken that up already? They've implemented
this bulk billing?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** This practice, this GP Super Clinic in
Lismore, was an initiative under the former Labor Government, and they have
always bulk billed their patients. And what that means is, they'll be able to
continue to provide affordable quality care for people in Lismore and the
surrounding there's six GPs practicing here, and we know what that has meant
to local people, especially through the natural disasters that your community
has been impacted by.

**JOURNALIST** And obviously, you know, alleviating pressure from the
hospitals so people can actually come in?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** This investment will mean that our
already overstretched emergency departments, particularly in regional and
remote communities, that have been under increasing pressure through the COVID
19 pandemic, we've seen more patients turn up to the emergency department
because they've avoided or delayed seeing their GP because they couldn't
afford it. So, this is good for people’s care, it's good for general practice,
and it's good for our healthcare system.

**JOURNALIST** And what's the average cost for the patient at the moment and
what will that come down to?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** So, this does vary widely across
Australia. In some communities, people are paying, $100 or more out of pocket.
But general practices are private businesses, and that's a decision of the
practice what they charge in a co-payment. So, what this is intended to do is
give them every support and incentive to bulk bill so that they will bulk bill
especially children under 16, age pensioners, and people with health care
concession cards. And what we believe it will also do is provide a flow on
benefit to others. Practices that are effectively cost subsidising their bulk
billing by charging higher co-payments will be able to reduce those co-
payments so that everyone will benefit. So, we know that there's about 11
million Australians who are either under 16, age pensioners or hold health
care cards, they will see the immediate benefit, and we believe there will be
a flow and benefit to all Australians.

**JOURNALIST** And Medicare rebates?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** So, what we will see now in a place like
this, for a standard level B consult, the combination of the rebate plus
tripling the bulk billing incentive will mean that it'll be the government
investing around $60 to $70 in a bulk build session for someone, and having
spoken to the doctors in this practice, they said it will make an enormous
difference to their practice. This practice does bulk bill and they intend to
continue to bulk bill, but it will really boost the viability of their
practice and the work that they can do in their community.

**JOURNALIST** Just on pharmacy, we've spoken to a number of local pharmacies
here in Lismore and they're really concerned about the changes to PBS, and
that they might have to change their hours and potentially have to put off
staff because of the change in dispensing.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** I'm a pharmacist myself, and I've worked
in community pharmacy, and we want to see thriving community pharmacies, in
every city and town across Australia. We know there's around 6,000 community
pharmacies right around Australia, providing quality care. Pharmacists are the
most accessible health care professionals, and we want to boost and strengthen
community pharmacy. So, what we've seen in the Budget is now for the first
time, community pharmacies will have access to the National Immunisation
Program. So, all children over five will be able to access the National
Immunisation program, what we want to see is all health care professionals
work to the top of their skills and training, because we know that that's how
Australians will get the best care. So, we've announced a national scope of
practice review, which will look at, whether it's social workers, or
physiotherapist, or pharmacists, and what they can contribute to the top of
their skills and training in collaborative team based care so that Australians
get the best care that they deserve.

**JOURNALIST** So, they're worried that they're going to have to cut off
stuff, because they're essentially losing half their revenues through the
dispensing fees. Is that something that government is worried about, or is
looking into?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** What our Government's intention is to
make health care more affordable, we know that health care is one of the
biggest pressures in the household budget. So, this measure will mean that
almost 6 million Australians will be able to halve the cost of their
medicines. We are determined to work very closely with community pharmacies to
make sure that they are strong, that they are robust and everything that's
come out of this will be reinvested directly into community pharmacy to make
sure that we've got vibrant, sustainable community pharmacies right around
Australia.

**JOURNALIST** You don't worry that's going to lead to shortages with
different medicines? That was another concern that some of the pharmacies have
said.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** All sectors were hit by supply chain
problems through the global pandemic and the health care sector was no
exception to that. So, what we've done is, as of the first of July, every
medicine manufacturer will have to keep six months of that medicine on shore
in Australia, to make sure that we've got robust supply chains, from
manufacturers, to wholesalers, to pharmacists, so that every Australian can
get the medicine they need when they need it.

**JOURNALIST** And when will this roll out? When will this start being
implemented?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** So, the first of the 60 day dispensing
will start on the first of September for the first 100 medications. And
that'll be in consultation with someone's general practitioner, who decided
it's clinically safe and appropriate for someone to have two months’ supply of
medication for a stable, well managed condition. So, the first of this change
will start on first of September for people around Australia.

**JOURNALIST** Our federal member Kevin Hogan last year called for the
Medicare subsidised psychology sessions to be doubled after they were halved,
the Opposition has now come out and said that they would do that as part of
their Budget reply is that something you guys are looking into potentially
putting that back up to 20 from 10?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** So, what we saw, and there was a report,
the Better Access Evaluation, and this is a report commissioned by the former
government. And what that report showed was, that while some Australians would
access Better Access the government subsidised psychology sessions, many
couldn't and with the increasing sessions, we saw fewer Australians,
particularly in communities like here in Lismore, or places outside of major
centres be able to access care. Our focus is on equity and access so that
every Australian whatever their postcode, or whatever their bank balance can
access care.

So, we had a forum at the end of January where we brought together
psychiatrists, psychologists, people with lived and living experience, service
providers, to talk about Better Access and how we might be able to make it
more equitable and more affordable. And we'll continue those conversations
with the sector but in the Budget, we've seen over $500 million invested in
mental health. We're trying to build the pipeline of psychologists by
increasing psychologist in training, provisional psychologists, and
psychologist supervision because we know that one of the biggest barriers to
people being able to access psychology is a psychology workforce, and that is
worse the further you are outside of the major city.

**MONIKA WHEELER, HEALTHY NORTH COAST** I'm really pleased to be here today to
support the Government's Budget announcements, which really have a strong
focus in primary health care, and as the local Primary Health Network, we look
forward to commissioning a range of different initiatives and in primary
health care as a result of this Budget. As a practical example, in Lismore,
which one of the urgent care centre sites, we will be commissioning in the
coming months, a new urgent care centre for Lismore, which will provide
increased access to same day primary health care services for people in this
region, there is also a site that has been announced for Coffs Harbour as
well, and we look forward to setting that up too. And that will be available
to anyone in the region, don't have to be an ongoing patient, you can be a new
patient to access the service. There will be after our services included as
part of all of the urgent care clinics. We're also really looking forward to
supporting multidisciplinary teams in general practice. So that means that
more nurses and allied health professionals in the coming year will be able to
work with general practice as a result of these Budget announcements. And
that's terrific because that means that there'll be comprehensive care
providers in every general practice. So, we're really looking forward to
supporting our role as the Primary Health Network with a really exciting
investment into primary health care.

In relation to bulk billing, we've actually seen a 14% drop in bulk billing in
our region over the last two and a half years. So, we do hope that as a result
of the announcements in the last week, that that will start to increase again.

**JOURNALIST** Are you hearing that from GPs that you're talking to, that
they're likely to either start bulk billing again or mix their rates in their
own clinics?

**MONIKA WHEELER, HEALTHY NORTH COAST** Well, what I would say is that in the
last six months, what we have heard from general practices is that they're
really doing a tough and they've had to make decisions, to keep their
businesses afloat and to change their bulk billing policies. So, what we hope
as a result of this announcement is that those general practices that have
changed their policies in the last six months or a year, that they'll actually
make that decision to switch back to making sure that bulk billing is
available, particularly for people who are older, children, and people living
with chronic illnesses as well.

**JOURNALIST** Just on the Urgent Care Clinic, will that be a new sight? Do
you just want to tell us a little more about that?

**MONIKA WHEELER, HEALTHY NORTH COAST** So, the Urgent Care Centres, as part
of the government policy must be housed in an existing general practice.
That's part of reinvesting back into existing general practices across the
country. So, in our local region, what we've done is we've conducted an
expression of interest process, with local general practices here in Lismore,
and will very soon work through a procurement process to actually contract the
general practice to house that Urgent Care Centre.

**JOURNALIST** And can you just explain a bit about what that is? What those
centres will be?

**MONIKA WHEELER, HEALTHY NORTH COAST** So Urgent Care Centres have been
established, because what happens in a lot of different areas, particularly
rural areas is when general practices are not open people will use the
emergency departments as almost like a quasi-general practice, because they
might not be able to see their general practice in the time that they'd like
to see they or they need care in an out of hours period. What urgent care
centres do is provide options for people for visiting a general practice when
they have that urgent need. So, it's a non-life threatening need. But it is
something that they need addressed within a 24 or 48 hour period. And so
urgent care centres provide that stop gap between the emergency department and
your ongoing general practice that might be booked up for the next week or the
next two weeks. And then if you have a general practice that's not able to see
you straightaway, an urgent care centre might be that excellent next step
solution.

**JOURNALIST** And aside from obviously the medical rebate, what are the
issues of doctors facing regionally that need to be addressed?

**MONIKA WHEELER, HEALTHY NORTH COAST** Well look in this particular area in
Lismore, obviously, we're still recovering from the floods of last year and so
we've been working very closely with the support of the Australian Government
to help practices get back on their feet. We've had a range of different
workforce, wellbeing and locum initiatives that we've rolled out across the
region, particularly in Lismore. There was a $5 million announcements that
we're currently processing for infrastructure recovery, which is also a
fantastic initiative that is currently being implemented for just Lismore
primary health care services, so not just general practices, but also
pharmacists, allied health professionals and medical specialist services
outside the hospital. But we've also seen quite a lot of strain in our
community in relation to mental health. So, we've had a very big focus on
getting mental health services up and going particularly in the Northern
Rivers, post the flooding that we've experienced. So, there's a range of
different additional psychological support services now available for people
in the Northern Rivers as a result of the floods and their recovery.

**JOURNALIST** And these incentives will help improve and assist the running
of bulk billing?

**MONIKA WHEELER, HEALTHY NORTH COAST** Of course, the more people can make
their health care needs outside of a hospital system, the more that they're
going to be supported in that community primary health care environment.
There's quite a different experience that people have when they access primary
health care, because it is an opportunity to have a longer conversation and to
address some of those more ongoing health care needs when you're in a primary
health care situation. Emergency departments are not in a position to talk
about potentially screening that you might need to get done, or different
blood tests, or overall health check. These are the types of conversations
that you have in the general practice, and they're not the types of
conversations that you should be having in an emergency department because it
really is for those life threatening urgent care needs is why you go to the
emergency department. So very much it's really important that people are
seeing people in primary health care, using primary health care services where
they can, so we can just ease that strain on the emergency departments.

**KEN STOCKLEY, LISMORE GP SUPER CLINIC** Today's not just about the Lismore
GP Super Clinic. It's about the community and what we've done, and what we
haven't done as a community, and how Lismore has survived the last few years.
It's not just our country, it's not just our state, it's Lismore itself as
well. And the community spirit that our clinic has is reflected and reflects
what Lismore is and we're very fortunate to be part of that city. So, in that
respect, we're very pleased for you to be here to chat with us, take the time
to see what we do.

There's a couple of people that I normally don't get the opportunity to thank
or to stand out, but we have amongst today a group of people that over the
last three years have done some truly wonderful things for this community. One
in particular, John. John sat during the COVID pandemic, and triaged every
single patient that came in to protect those that were in the clinic from
those that were coming to the clinic. I would sit down with John and say,
'John, you're the oldest man in the clinic, you're the oldest person here and
you're the most vulnerable person on that basis, you shouldn't be doing this.'
John's answer was, 'I should because I’m dispensable. The others aren’t. Now
that community.

We have Tracy and we have Debbie, they themselves have opened this clinic for
anyone and everyone when the need arose. So, during the floods they were there
and helped, and didn't ask for anything. They didn't ask the people that
opened the clinic to for anything. We had people, dozens deep at the door in
the first week of the floods, asking to see the doctor. They had on the
clothes that they had on during the flood, they had a plastic bag in their
pocket, which had their life possessions in it, they had no ID, they had no
medical records. These ladies and the staff went to all the means to make sure
that they were looked after. That's what community is all about and we're
lucky to have them.

The big gentleman with the beard Steve he's one of the pharmacists here.
Steve, flew two helicopter loads of drugs, and medicines on his own behest
into Lismore during the flood. Because there we're no pharmacist in downtown
Lismore, there were no drugs available. Steve didn't do it to make money. He
gave those drugs to the patients that needed it, to the doctors, he worked
with the doctors, he worked with his fellow pharmacists, and that's why he has
the respect today.

We have here today from the PHN Luke and Rowena, yes Monika, and they have
been a pillar of strength to us, in helping us and helping the community to do
what they have to do. So, we are very lucky to have all of these people around
us today. A couple of my staff phoned me when they knew you were coming, and
they said, 'we're a little bit nervous about a federal minister coming to
visit,' and they thought that was a bit of rarefied air. And I said to them,
'by the time I've finished speaking, the minister will understand that she's
actually in rarefied air because of what these people do for the community.'
So welcome. But before I say that I'd have to congratulate you.

What the Government announced in the Medicare increase is exception, it is
going to bring bulk billing back, it is going to encourage those that have
recently changed maybe to private billing, to go back to bulk billing, and I
really think it's a step in the right direction. And you deserve kudos, and
you deserve laurels. But we don't want you to sit on laurels. That was this
year. Next year, you have to relook at it again. And you have to continue to
improve Medicare, not the money side of it, but the services that we provide
as medical practitioners and owners of medical clinics. The money helps to do
that. The first thing anyone talks about when they talk about Medicare today
is money. It should be the last thing that we talked about. The first thing we
should be talking about is the services that we provide, and that's what the
conversation has to get back to.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

