Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Medicare Benefits Schedule Better Access initiative – mental health support
for aged care residents during the COVID-19 pandemic

The expanded eligibility for aged care residents under the Better Access to
Psychiatrists, Psychologists and General Practitioners through the Medicare
Benefits Schedule (Better Access) initiative, through GP referral, ceases on
31 December 2022.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare Benefits Schedule Better Access initiative – mental health support for aged care residents during the COVID-19 pandemic&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medicare-benefits-schedule-better-access-initiative-mental-health-support-for-aged-care-residents-during-the-covid-19-pandemic)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medicare-benefits-schedule-better-access-initiative-mental-health-support-for-aged-care-residents-during-the-covid-19-pandemic)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare Benefits Schedule Better Access initiative – mental health support for aged care residents during the COVID-19 pandemic&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medicare-benefits-schedule-better-access-initiative-mental-health-support-for-aged-care-residents-during-the-covid-19-pandemic)

Loading...

On this page

Aged care residents can continue to access Better Access services if they are
referred by a psychiatrist, consistent with pre-pandemic arrangements and
eligibility requirements.

The expanded eligibility for aged care residents under the [Better Access to
Psychiatrists, Psychologists and General Practitioners through the Medicare
Benefits
Schedule](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-
ba) (Better Access), through GP referral, **ceases on 31 December 2022**.

This temporary measure, in response to the [Royal Commission into Aged Care
Quality and Safety COVID-19 special report
recommendations](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/australian-
government-implementation-progress-report-on-the-royal-commission-into-aged-
care-quality-and-safety-report-aged-care-and-covid-19-a-special-report),
allows aged care residents whose mental health was impacted by the COVID-19
pandemic to access up to 20 Medicare subsidised individual psychological
services each calendar year through their GP, in line with broader access in
the community. Access to these sessions is available to 31 December 2022.

Aged care residents can continue to access [Better
Access](https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/better-access-
initiative?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-
custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation) services if they are referred by a
psychiatrist, consistent with pre-pandemic arrangements and eligibility
requirements.

### ****Better Access Evaluation****

An [evaluation](https://www.health.gov.au/better-access-evaluation) of Better
Access was completed in December 2022. Future arrangements will be informed by
the evaluation findings. The [evaluation
report](/resources/collections/evaluation-of-the-better-access-initiative-
final-report "Evaluation of the Better Access initiative – final report") is
available online.

## **About the initiative**

The purpose of the [Better Access
initiative](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mental-
ba) is to improve access to mental health treatment and management of mental
illness.

Under Better access, General Practitioners are encouraged to work more closely
and collaboratively with psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, registered
psychologists, occupational therapists and social workers.

## **Eligibility requirements**

The Better Access initiative is available to patients with a diagnosed mental
disorder who would benefit from a structured approach to treatment.

Mental disorder is a term used to describe a range of clinically diagnosable
disorders that significantly interfere with an individual's cognitive,
emotional or social abilities. Dementia, delirium, tobacco use disorder and
mental retardation are not regarded as mental disorders for the purposes of
this initiative, but may co-exist with mental disorders.

## **Other services**

A range of other mental health services and supports are available to aged
care residents.

### **Primary Health Networks (PHNs)**

[Primary Health
Networks](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primary_Health_Networks)
(PHNs), in consultation with Residential Aged Care Facilities, commission in-
reach mental health services in a stepped-care approach for eligible residents
with a mental illness.

Services are delivered across the spectrum of the stepped-care approach,
including low intensity interventions and individual psychological therapies
by a range of mental health professionals including psychologists, social
workers, occupational therapists, mental health nurses and counsellors.

Find contact details for [your local
PHN](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/phn) by and click on
the Map Locator.

### **Beyond Blue phone counselling service**

Beyond Blue offers a 24/7 phone counselling service (1800 512 348). This
service is staffed by trained counsellors to help people experiencing stress
or anxiety.

### **Head to Health**

Digital services can be used to complement, or as an alternative to, face-to-
face therapies, allowing aged care residents to seek support in times of need
or when most convenient.

The Government’s digital mental health gateway, [Head to
Health](https://www.headtohealth.gov.au/), is a consumer-friendly website that
aims to help people more easily access information, advice and free or low
cost phone and online counselling, treatment and crisis support.

## **Chronic disease management**

If a resident has a chronic disease, they may be eligible for MBS services
under a General Practitioner Management Plan (GPMP) and Team Care Arrangements
(TCA). Patients being managed under a GPMP and TCA are eligible for Medicare
rebates for certain allied health services, on referral from their GP.

Eligible allied health services are: Aboriginal health work; audiology;
chiropractic; diabetes education; dietetics; exercise physiology; mental
health work; occupational therapy; osteopathy; physiotherapy; podiatry;
psychology; and speech pathology.

Information about chronic disease management (CDM) services can be found on
the [Department of Health website](https://www.health.gov.au/home) by
searching for 'chronic disease management'.

Last updated:

2 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

