Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [Medicare compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

[Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

# Our Medicare compliance activities

We are accountable for payments made under Medicare programs. We review and
audit health practitioners’ claims to make sure they are legitimate. We
support health practitioners to comply with Medicare requirements, with a
focus on prevention and early intervention.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Our Medicare compliance activities&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Our Medicare compliance activities&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)

Loading...

On this page

## **Education and support**

We provide educational resources and personal support to help you meet your
legal obligations as a health practitioner and reduce the risk of incorrect
billing under Medicare.

This includes:

  * the [introduction to compliance within Medicare](http://www.medicareaust.com/compliance/Welcome/index.html) eLearning module, which shows how you can meet your obligations
  * the [Medicare billing compliance](https://www.dplearning.com.au/cpd-learning/medicare-billing-compliance) eLearning module, which explains obligations, relevant legislation, and procedures in case of an incorrect claim
  * the [billing Medicare in public hospitals](http://medicareaust.com/PublicHospitals/index.html) eLearning module, which explains how to bill and claim for services provided to patients in public hospitals
  * information to help you identify, manage and prevent incorrect billing, and improve your practices, including our [Medicare billing assurance toolkit](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/medicare-billing-assurance-toolkit)
  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) (MBS) and [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS) item notes, which explain the conditions for each item
  * the [Child Dental Benefits Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/child-dental-benefits-schedule) (CDBS) guide, which explains the requirements of the CDBS
  * [AskMBS advisories](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/askmbs-advisories), which provide advice on common issues
  * [AskMBS email advice service](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/askmbs-email-advice-service), which advises on how to interpret and apply MBS items, explanatory notes, and associated legislation, with no involvement in MBS compliance
  * [Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals), which provide support about Medicare claims, claims adjustments or obtaining a Medicare provider number.

Our educational resources can earn you continuing professional development
points.

## **Behavioural insights and interventions**

We use our knowledge of behaviour to improve compliance through:

  * finding behaviours of concern and what might influence that behaviour, then removing the barriers to its change
  * developing interventions based on research and behavioural science
  * using robust evaluation, such as randomised controlled trials, to decide whether interventions are working.

For example, to help combat [antimicrobial
resistance](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/antimicrobial-
resistance-amr), we trialled sending general practitioners who prescribed a
lot of antibiotics a comparison of their data and that of their peers.

This resulted in a significant reduction of antibiotic prescriptions. Read the
Nudge vs Superbugs – [6-month report](/resources/publications/nudge-vs-
superbugs "Nudge vs Superbugs") and [12-month follow-up
report](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/nudge-vs-
superbugs-12-months-on).

## **Data matching**

We do routine data matching of health practitioners’ MBS and PBS claiming data
to find possible incorrect billing, inappropriate practice and fraud.

When working with practitioners’ data, we:

  * transfer it securely
  * match it in secure environments
  * apply strict security controls
  * only allow authorised staff to access it when required for their duties.

If data matching identifies potential wrongdoing, our compliance officers
carry out audits or investigations through prescribed and legislated
compliance processes.

Data matching does not:

  * expand our compliance powers
  * change how we do compliance activities
  * impose any changes or new obligations on health providers
  * authorise the automation of compliance outcomes or the raising of debts.

The following legislation and regulations dictate how we can data match:

  * The [National Health Act 1953](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00298) enables us to data match in specific circumstances for a permitted purpose.

  * The [National Health (Data-matching) Principles 2020](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2021L00006) set out the governance requirements for data matching, including requiring: 
    * a [public notice](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/data-matching-notice-data-matching-for-medicare-compliance-purposes) to provide transparency and awareness of data matching
    * a [public register](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/public-register-data-matching-activities) describing the kinds of information we match.

We also publish a [privacy impact
assessment](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/data-matching-
foundational-privacy-impact-assessment-executive-summary) of our data matching
activities.

Our data matching activities comply with the:

  * [Attorney-General's Department's Protective Security Policy Framework](https://www.protectivesecurity.gov.au/about)
  * [Department of Defence's Information Security Manual](https://acsc.gov.au/infosec/ism/).

## **Targeted letter campaigns**

We send targeted letters to alert you when your claiming patterns show you are
at risk of non-compliance.

Many instances of incorrect payments are accidental. Targeted letters help
you:

  * review your claims
  * find and correct any errors by making a [voluntary acknowledgement](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments "Voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect payments")
  * repay any accrued debt.

Responding to a targeted letter is voluntary, but it is in your best interest
to do so. When monitoring future claiming and deciding whether to undertake an
audit or other intervention, we will consider any:

  * information you provided to explain your claiming
  * corrections you made to claims
  * changes in your claiming patterns following our letter.

## **Audits**

We conduct compliance audits and reviews for the MBS, PBS, CDBS and incentive
programs.

If we have reasonable concerns about your Medicare claiming, we may issue a
notice asking you to produce relevant documents to substantiate your Medicare
claims.

We will raise a debt for the service if:

  * you don't provide the documents we asked for
  * the documents do not prove your professional service or claims were legitimate.

You may also face civil penalties if you have the records requested in the
notice and don’t produce them.

If you’re being audited, read our fact sheets for the:

  * [MBS audit process](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/about-the-medicare-audit-process)
  * [PBS audit process](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/about-the-pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-pbs-audit-process)
  * [DBS audit process](/resources/publications/about-the-dental-benefits-schedule-dbs-audit-process "About the Dental Benefits Schedule \(DBS\) audit process").

### **Review of decision**

If we make a decision that amounts are recoverable following a compliance
activity that you don't agree with, you can ask for a formal review.

You can ask for a [review of
decision](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/application-to-
review-compliance-audit-decision) if:

  * an amount of money can be recovered from the decision 
  * we have not already reviewed the decision at your request.

When applying:

  * apply within 28 days of getting our ‘notice of decision to claim a debt’ letter
  * use the approved [application form](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/application-to-review-compliance-audit-decision)
  * make sure the application form is accurate and complete
  * attach relevant additional information so that the review officer has everything they need.

If you are unsatisfied with the review officer’s decision, you may seek
further review through the [Administrative Appeals
Tribunal](https://www.aat.gov.au/) or other appropriate jurisdiction.

You cannot ask for a review of decision if the person or estate has waived the
right to review in writing.

## **Practitioner Review Program reviews**

The [Practitioner Review Program](/our-work/practitioner-review-program
"Practitioner Review Program") identifies potential inappropriate practice by
health practitioners who bill, claim or prescribe under the MBS, CDBS and PBS.

Through routine monitoring of Medicare billing and prescribing, we identify
health practitioners whose patterns:

  * vary significantly from those of their peers, which might indicate inappropriate practice
  * show a large number of daily services, which might indicate a prescribed pattern of services. 

## **Case referral to the Professional Services Review**

If, after we finalise a review, we believe the [80/20 or 30/20
rule](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/medicare-compliance/how-we-
ensure-compliance/practitioner-review#inappropriate-practice) may have been
breached, or we still can’t be sure that inappropriate practice has not
occurred, we refer cases to the Professional Services Review (PSR) for an
independent professional review.

The PSR’s peer review processes ensure that appropriately qualified people
decide whether your conduct would be unacceptable to most members of your
profession or specialty.

## **Fraud investigations**

We investigate suspected Medicare fraud from health practitioners, such as
claiming for medication or services that were not provided.

Our investigations follow the:

  * [Australian Government Investigation Standards](https://www.ag.gov.au/integrity/publications/australian-government-investigations-standards-2011)
  * [Commonwealth Fraud Control Framework](https://www.ag.gov.au/integrity/publications/commonwealth-fraud-control-framework).

We will offer you the opportunity to attend an interview to explain your
practice.

If necessary, we can use powers under the national [Human Services (Medicare)
Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2020C00382) to require you
to provide information or conduct search warrants.

We sometimes work with the police, and might refer matters to the
[Commonwealth Director of Public
Prosecutions](https://www.bing.com/ck/a?!&&p=c8232d57b7fd752bJmltdHM9MTY2MTE0MzQzMyZpZ3VpZD1jNGUwYzAzMC0xZWJkLTQwYjUtOGRlNS05ZDAzZDc1M2QyOWQmaW5zaWQ9NTE5Nw&ptn=3&hsh=3&fclid=061b279d-21d5-11ed-
bc19-20232f4decbd&u=a1aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuY2RwcC5nb3YuYXUv&ntb=1) for possible
criminal prosecution.

## **Learn more**

[ ![Health Provider compliance strategy
2021-22](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2021/09/health-
provider-compliance-strategy-2021-22.png?itok=nXnHcIUn)
](/resources/publications/health-provider-compliance-strategy-2021-22)

###  [Health Provider Compliance Strategy 2021–22
](/resources/publications/health-provider-compliance-
strategy-2021-22?language=en)

The Health Provider Compliance Strategy aims to help health providers
understand their responsibilities in relation to compliance. It outlines the
Department's compliance priorities for the 2021-22 financial year and
describes the tools and methods used to identify and treat non-compliance.

Last updated:

6 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
    * [About](/topics/medicare/compliance/about)
    * [When it applies](/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)
    * [How to comply](/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)
    * [Our compliance activities](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)
    * [Voluntary acknowledgement](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
    * [Debts and penalties](/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)
    * [Reporting incorrect billing or claiming, or suspected fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

