Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

[Medicines](/topics/medicines)

# About prescriptions

Some medicines are only available from a pharmacist with a prescription from
an authorised health practitioner. This ensures that your health practitioner
can first assess your condition, determine which medicine you need and give
you advice before you take it.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About prescriptions&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicines/about-prescriptions)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicines/about-prescriptions)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About prescriptions&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicines/about-prescriptions)

Loading...

On this page

## **What a prescription is**

A prescription is a legal document that health practitioners write for a
pharmacist to dispense a specific medicine.

You can’t legally obtain prescription-only medicines without that document.

## **Which medicines need a prescription**

You need a prescription for medicines that have higher risks, such as:

  * potentially serious side effects
  * more complicated ways of taking them (such as injections)
  * the potential for addiction or misuse.

The need for a prescription ensures that, before you take a medicine, your
health practitioner can:

  * assess your needs and condition
  * consider any other medicine you take to avoid negative interactions
  * determine the most appropriate medicine for you
  * explain how to take your medicine and any potential risks or side effects.

These medicines include, for example:

  * [antibiotics](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/antibiotics) – as they are effective only for certain conditions, which a health practitioner needs to assess, and it’s important [not to overuse antibiotics](/node/37293#when-antibiotics-may-or-may-not-be-prescribed)
  * medicines that need regular assessment to make sure their ongoing effectiveness – such as those that treat blood pressure, glucose levels, cancer, mental health conditions and others
  * injectable medicines, such as insulin – so that your health practitioner can explain how to administer it
  * ‘controlled medicines’ – such as [opioids](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/opioid-medicines), which are critical to managing severe acute pain, but carry significant risk of addiction.

Generally, prescription medicines are [registered
medicines](https://www.tga.gov.au/how-we-regulate-medicines) in the
[Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods](https://www.tga.gov.au/australian-
register-therapeutic-goods).

State and territory laws govern the use of some prescription medicines in each
jurisdiction.

The Australian Government subsidises the cost of many prescription medicines
under the:

  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/about-the-pbs) (PBS), which is available to Australians with a [Medicare card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-card)
  * [Repatriation PBS](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/help-cover-healthcare-costs/manage-medicine-and-keep-costs-down/concessional) (RPBS), which subsidises the cost of some medicines for eligible veterans.

This makes medicines [more affordable](/topics/medicines/cost "Cost of
medicines").

All PBS-subsidised medicines are prescription medicines, but the PBS doesn’t
subsidise all prescription medicines. It covers about 80% of all prescription
medicines.

For some PBS-subsidised medicines, your prescriber might need [written
authority approval](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/written-authority-
required-drugs) before they can prescribe them.

Read more about [prescription medicines](https://www.tga.gov.au/prescription-
medicines-overview).

## **Private prescriptions**

Private prescriptions are those for medicines not subsidised under the
[PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/about-the-pbs) or
[RPBS](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/help-cover-healthcare-
costs/manage-medicine-and-keep-costs-down/concessional). This means the cost
can vary between pharmacies and you pay the full price for your medicine.

You might be able to claim a portion of the cost of a private prescription
back from your private health insurance. The level of cover provided depends
on your health fund and policy.

## **Who can prescribe medicines**

Only authorised health practitioners – such as doctors, dentists,
optometrists, nurse practitioners and midwife practitioners – can prescribe
medicines.

To prescribe medicines, health practitioners must:

  * have completed accredited prescribing education and training that is consistent with their scope of practice
  * be registered with the [national board](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/national-boards.aspx) for their specialty
  * be approved under the [National Health Act 1953](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00460) for prescriptions of PBS or RPBS medicines

  * be approved under relevant state and territory legislation and regulation.

Read more about [prescription medicines
regulation](https://www.tga.gov.au/prescription-medicines) and [PBS
prescriptions](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/healthpro/explanatory-
notes/section1/Section_1_2_Explanatory_Notes).

## **Who can dispense prescription medicines**

Only authorised health practitioners – such as pharmacists, doctors, dentists,
optometrists, nurse practitioners and midwife practitioners – can dispense
prescription-only medicines. This includes prescription medicines in
hospitals.

Pharmacists need a valid prescription before they can dispense a prescription-
only medicine. There are some exceptions for those who are in [immediate need
of a medicine](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/news/2020/03/continued-dispensing-
arrangements-covid-19) but have no way of obtaining a prescription, or as
allowed by state or territory rules for emergency supply.

## **What prescriptions look like**

Your health practitioner can provide you with either:

  * a handwritten prescription
  * a printed prescription
  * an [electronic prescription](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-prescriptions "Electronic prescriptions") to your phone or direct to your preferred pharmacy.

Prescriptions must all include some [mandatory
information](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/education-guide-writing-pbs-
and-rpbs-prescriptions?context=23411), including:

  * the prescriber's name, phone number and address (and prescriber number, where relevant)
  * your name and address
  * whether you are a concession or general patient
  * whether the prescription is under the [PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/about-the-pbs) or [RPBS](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/help-cover-healthcare-costs/manage-medicine-and-keep-costs-down/concessional), if relevant
  * the item, dose, form, strength, quantity and instructions for use
  * the prescriber’s signature and date
  * the maximum number of repeats (how many times you can get the medicine on the same prescription before needing to see your prescriber again).

Your prescriptions can be included in [My Health Record](/node/31843#my-
health-record) to help your health practitioners make more informed decisions
about your health care.

## **Active ingredient prescribing**

For most PBS prescriptions, prescribers use the [active ingredient rather than
the brand name](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/general/active-ingredient-
prescribing). This makes it easier for you to:

  * choose a cheaper [generic or biosimilar medicine](/node/36863#medicine-types-), if available.
  * check whether you are taking the same active ingredient in another medicine, to prevent double dosing
  * check that you’re not allergic to any active ingredients
  * check for potential negative interactions with other medicines you are taking
  * find the right medicine when overseas, even if brands differ.

In some cases, your health practitioner will prescribe a specific brand, and
tick the ‘brand substitution not permitted’ box on the prescription. This
could be because you might have a negative reaction to other brands.

Your health practitioner might also prescribe a specific brand, without
ticking the ‘brand substitution not permitted’ box if:

  * the medicine contains 4 or more active ingredients
  * it is impractical to prescribe by active ingredient for any other reason.

Read more about [active ingredient
prescribing](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-work/medication-
safety/active-ingredient-prescribing).

## **Prescription monitoring**

While critical to helping patients, some medicines are more likely to be
misused – for example, because they can become addictive. They include
opioids, benzodiazepines, barbiturates and amphetamines.

To ensure patients who need them can access these medicines, while reducing
potential misuse, we monitor their use through the [National Real Time
Prescription Monitoring](/our-work/national-real-time-prescription-monitoring-
rtpm "National Real Time Prescription Monitoring \(RTPM\)").

## **More information**

Find more information about:

  * [accessing medicines](/topics/medicines/access "Access to medicines")
  * [managing your medicines safely](/topics/medicines/safe-use "Safe use of medicines").

Last updated:

23 June 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

  * [About medicines](/topics/medicines/about-medicines)
  * [About prescriptions](/topics/medicines/about-prescriptions)
  * [Access to medicines](/topics/medicines/access)
  * [Cost of medicines](/topics/medicines/cost)
  * [Safe use of medicines](/topics/medicines/safe-use)
  * [Medication management for health practitioners](/topics/medicines/medication-management-for-health-practitioners)
  * [What we do](/topics/medicines/what-we-do)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicines/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicines/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicines/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicines/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

