Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme

The Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme helps public and private
radiation oncology providers in areas of greatest need to purchase eligible
radiation therapy equipment.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-scheme)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-scheme)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-scheme)

Loading...

On this page

## About the scheme

The scheme provides grants to help public and private radiation oncology
providers to buy or replace radiation therapy machines (called linear
accelerators).

The scheme provides $3 million for each linear accelerator (linac). We pay
this at a rate of:

  * $300,000 per year for up to 10 years for public providers
  * $375,000 per year for up to 8 years for private providers.

The grants are in addition to Medicare rebates that patients receive for
radiation therapy services. Grant funding helps to cover the professional and
operating costs of oncology services.

## Why it is important

Radiation therapy is effective in treating half of all
[cancers](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/cancer). This scheme helps
Australians to access radiation therapy treatment, regardless of where they
live.

## Goals

The scheme aims to:

  * enable cancer patients access to radiation oncology services
  * improve health outcomes for cancer patients
  * ensure radiation oncology services are of the highest quality and safety.

## Priority areas

State and territory governments are responsible for planning radiotherapy
services. We seek advice from states and territories to determine which health
planning regions are most in need of oncology services by assessing:

  * cancer incidence
  * population numbers
  * existing services in each region.

New priority areas open for grant funding are published each February.

The following priority areas have been identified by states and territories
for 2023-24:

### 2023–24 priority areas

**State**

|

**Area**

| Status |

**Requirements**  
  
---|---|---|---  
  
New South Wales

|

Tamworth Local Government area

| Continuing |

1 linear accelerator  
  
New South Wales | Griffith Local Government Area | New | 1 linear accelerator  
New South Wales | Sutherland Shire Local Government Area | New | 1 linear
accelerator  
  
  * New priority areas will be advertised for 8 weeks before we open applications.

  
  
## Applying for ROHPG grant funding

New grants are available to [approved facilities](/our-work/radiation-
oncology-health-program-grants-scheme#approved-facilities "Radiation Oncology
Health Program Grants Scheme") that provide radiation oncology services with
linacs in [priority areas](/our-work/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-
scheme#priority-areas "Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme").

### Continuing priority areas

Applications are open throughout the year and will be assessed in order of
submission.

### New priority areas

The application period for new priority areas will start 8 weeks after the new
priority areas are advertised and remain open for 4 weeks.

If no applications arrive in the initial 4 week application period, they will
be assessed in order of submission.

Applications for the 2023–24 new priority areas are now closed until further
notice.

Competing applications will be considered together and assessed against the
criteria at Clause 6.2 of the [Guidelines.](/resources/publications/radiation-
oncology-health-program-grants-scheme-administrative-guidelines "Radiation
Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Administrative guidelines")

### Becoming an approved facility

If your facility is not yet approved under Section 40 of the national [Health
Insurance Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00174), you
must first [apply for approval](/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-
health-program-grants-scheme-application-for-approval-of-an-organisation-
section-40 "Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for
approval of an organisation \(Section 40\)").

### Apply for funding

Once approved, you can [apply](/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-
health-program-grants-scheme-application-for-a-new-or-expanded-service-
section-41 "Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for
a new or expanded service \(Section 41\)") for:

  * a new facility
  * extra equipment at an approved facility
  * replacement of existing equipment
  * relocation of an approved facility.

You must show you have notified the relevant [state or territory health
departments](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/local-state-and-
territory-health-departments) of your application. This includes the state or
territory where the facility is based, and other relevant states or
territories if you expect many interstate patients. This helps ensure state
and territory governments can plan for radiation oncology services in the
short and long term.

### Apply for ownership transfer

If your facility changes ownership or control, you must apply for a [transfer
of ownership](/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-health-program-
grants-scheme-application-for-transfer-of-ownership-or-control "Radiation
Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for transfer of ownership
or control").

#### **Assessment process**

We assess all applications in line with the scheme’s administrative
guidelines.

[ ![Cover image for Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme –
Administrative
guidelines](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2022-12/radiation-
oncology-health-program-grants-scheme-administrative-
guidelines_0.png?itok=ODj3cHgX) ](/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-
health-program-grants-scheme-administrative-guidelines)

###  [Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Administrative
guidelines ](/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-
scheme-administrative-guidelines?language=en)

The Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme helps public and private
radiation oncology providers in areas of greatest need to buy eligible
radiation therapy equipment.

## Reviews

We conducted 2 reviews of the scheme in:

  * [2016](https://webarchive.nla.gov.au/awa/20220329125112/http:/www6.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/radonc-rohpg-review) – to determine whether the scheme was contemporary, fair and equitable
  * [2020](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-rohpg-scheme-2020-review-report) – to look at the impacts of changes implemented in 2017 and at whether the scheme is effectively meeting its goals.

## Other support

All states and territories have patient accommodation and travel schemes that
support patients who have to travel long distances for cancer treatment.
Contact your [state or territory health
department](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/local-state-and-
territory-health-departments) for more information.

You might also be able to get support for travel and treatment through not-
for-profit organisations, including the:

  * [Leukaemia Foundation of Australia](http://www.leukaemia.org.au/)
  * [Cancer Council Australia](http://www.cancer.org.au/)
  * [Cancer Council ACT](http://www.actcancer.org/)
  * [Cancer Council New South Wales](http://www.cancercouncil.com.au/)
  * [Cancer Council Northern Territory](https://www.cancer.org.au/nt)
  * [Cancer Council Queensland](https://cancerqld.org.au/index.php)
  * [Cancer Council Tasmania](http://www.cancertas.org.au/)
  * [Cancer Council South Australia](http://www.cancersa.org.au/)
  * [Cancer Council Victoria](http://www.cancervic.org.au/)
  * [Cancer Council Western Australia](http://www.cancerwa.asn.au/).

## Approved facilities

### New South Wales

Name

|

Address

|

Status  
  
---|---|---  
  
Public  
  
[Blacktown Cancer Centre, Blacktown
Hospital](http://www.sydneywestcancer.org/blacktowncancercentre/)

|

Blacktown Road, Blacktown NSW 2148 – 02 9881 8421

|

Operational  
  
[Calvary Mater Hospital Newcastle](http://www.calvarymater.org.au/cancer-
services/)

|

Edith St, Waratah NSW 2298 – 02 4921 1211

|

Operational  
  
[Central Coast Regional Cancer Centre – Gosford
Hospital](https://www.canrefer.org.au/cancer-services/gosford-
hospital/central-coast-cancer-service)

|

76 Holden Street, Gosford NSW 2250 – 02 4320 9888

|

Operational  
  
[Central West Cancer Centre](https://www.canrefer.org.au/services/central-
west-cancer-centre)

|

1530 Forest Road, Orange NSW 2800 – 02 6369 3380

|

Operational  
  
[Crown Princess Mary Cancer Centre,
Westmead](http://www.sydneywestcancer.org/the-crown-princess-mary-cancer-
centre/)

|

Corner Darcy and Hawkesbury Roads, Wentworthville NSW 2145 – 02 8890 5200

|

Operational  
  
[Illawarra Cancer Care
Centre](https://www.islhd.health.nsw.gov.au/hospitals/wollongong-
hospital/services-clinics/illawarra-cancer-care-centre-radiation-oncology)

|

Building D, Corner Loftus Street and New Dapto Road, Wollongong NSW 2500 – 02
4222 5200

|

Operational  
  
[Liverpool Cancer Therapy
Centre](https://www.swslhd.health.nsw.gov.au/cancer/locationl.html)

|

Elizabeth Street, Liverpool NSW 2170 – 02 8738 5180

|

Operational  
  
[Macarthur Cancer Therapy
Centre](https://www.swslhd.health.nsw.gov.au/cancer/location.html)

|

Therry Road, Campbelltown NSW 2560 – 02 4634 4300

|

Operational  
  
[Mid North Coast Cancer Institute – Coffs Harbour
](https://mnclhd.health.nsw.gov.au/mid-north-coast-cancer-institute/mncci-
coffs-harbour/)

|

345 Pacific Highway, Coffs Harbour NSW 2450 – 02 6656 5737

|

Operational  
  
[Mid North Coast Cancer Institute – Port
Macquarie](https://mnclhd.health.nsw.gov.au/mid-north-coast-cancer-
institute/mncci-port-macquarie/)

|

Wrights Road, Port Macquarie NSW 2444 – 02 6580 1807

|

Operational  
  
[Nepean Cancer Care Centre](https://www.canrefer.org.au/services/nepean-
cancer-care-centre)

|

Corner Great Western Highway and Somerset Street, Kingswood NSW 2747 – 02 4734
3500

|

Operational  
  
[North Coast Cancer Institute – Lismore
Cancer](https://www.canrefer.org.au/services/north-coast-cancer-institute-
lismore-cancer-care-c)

|

70–72 Hunter Street, Lismore, NSW 2480 – 02 6620 2416

|

Operational  
  
[Northern Sydney Cancer Centre – Royal North Shore
Hospital](https://www.nslhd.health.nsw.gov.au/Cancer/Pages/default.aspx)

|

Reserve Road, St Leonards NSW 2065 – 02 9926 7111

|

Operational  
  
[North West Cancer Centre](https://www.canrefer.org.au/services/north-west-
cancer-centre)

|

31 Dean Street, North Tamworth NSW 2340 – 02 6767 7760

|

Operational  
  
[Prince of Wales Hospital, Nelune Comprehensive Cancer
Centre](https://www.seslhd.health.nsw.gov.au/prince-of-wales-
hospital/services-clinics/nelune-comprehensive-cancer)

|

Corner Avoca and Highs Streets, Randwick NSW 2031 – 02 9382 5111

|

Operational  
  
[St George Cancer Care Centre](https://www.canrefer.org.au/services/st-george-
hospital-cancer-care-centre)

|

1 Short Street, Kogarah NSW 2217 – 02 9113 3909

|

Operational  
  
[Shoalhaven Regional Cancer
Centre](https://www.islhd.health.nsw.gov.au/hospitals/shoalhaven/services-
clinics/shoalhaven-cancer-care-centre-radiation-oncology-specialist)

|

Corner Scenic Drive and North Streets, Nowra NSW 2541 – 02 4428 7400

|

Operational  
  
[Western Cancer Centre Dubbo](https://www.canrefer.org.au/services/western-
cancer-centre-dubbo)

|

Myall Street, Dubbo NSW 2830 – 02 6809 6200

|

Operational  
  
Private  
  
Cancer Care Macarthur

|  |

Not yet operational  
  
[GenesisCare Albury Wodonga](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/albury-wodonga/) | Corner of Borella Road and East Street, East Albury
NSW/VIC , 2640 – 02 6043 7800 | Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Kingswood](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/kingswood/)

|

38 Somerset St,Kingswood NSW 2747 – 02 4726 8700

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Lake Macquarie Newcastle Radiation Oncology
Centre](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/newcastle)

|

36 Pacific Highway, Gateshead NSW 2290 – 02 4918 4500

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Macquarie University Hospital
](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/macquarie-university-hospital)

|

3 Technology Place, Macquarie University NSW 2109 – 02 9812 3220

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Waratah Private Hospital ](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/hurstville)

|

31 Dora Street, Hurstville NSW 2220 – 02 8568 7600

|

Operational  
  
[Riverina Cancer Care Centre](http://www.riverinacancercare.com.au/)

|

31 Meurant Avenue, Wagga Wagga NSW 2650 – 02 6932 1000

|

Operational  
  
[The Mater Hospital](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/mater-
hospital-sydney-oncology/)

|

25 Rocklands road, North Sydney, NSW – 02 9458 8050

|

Operational  
  
[St Vincent’s Clinic](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/st-vincents-
sydney)

|

438 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst NSW 2010 – 02 8382 6222

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Gosford](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/gosford/)

|

41 William Street, Gosford NSW 2250 – 02 4349 8000

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Revesby](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/revesby/)

|

1-3 MacArthur Avenue, Revesby NSW 2212 – 02 8722 2800

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Wahroonga](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/wahroonga/)

|

Level 2, 185 Fox Valley Road, Wahroonga NSW 2076 – 02 9480 4200

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Maitland](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/maitland/)

|

175 Chisholm Road, East Maitland NSW 2323 – 02 9068 9580

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Concord](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/concord/)

|

Hospital Road, Concord NSW 2138 – 02 9767 3277

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Norwest Private
Hospital](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/norwest/)

|

11 Norbrik Drive, Bella Vista NSW 2153 – 02 9068 9540

|

Operational  
  
[Lifehouse at RPA](https://www.mylifehouse.org.au/departments/radiation-
oncology/)

|

119–143 Missenden Road, Camperdown NSW 2050 – 02 8514 0027

|

Operational  
  
[Northern Beaches Cancer Care](http://www.northernbeachescancercare.com.au/)

|

49 Frenchs Forest Road, Frenchs Forest NSW 2086 – 02 8377 2700

|

Operational  
  
[St Vincent's Hospital](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/st-
vincents-sydney)

|

390 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst NSW 2010 – 02 8382 1111

|

Operational  
  
### Queensland

Name | Address | Status  
---|---|---  
Public  
  
[Cairns Radiation Oncology Service](https://www.cairns-
hinterland.health.qld.gov.au/healthcare-services/cancer-care)

|

249-251 Lake Street, Cairns, QLD, 4870 – 1800 075 929

|

Operational  
  
[Gold Coast University Hospital](https://www.goldcoast.health.qld.gov.au/our-
services/radiation-oncology)

|

1 Hospital Blvd, Southport, QLD, 4215 – 1300 744 284

|

Operational  
  
[Princess Alexandra
Hospital](https://metrosouth.health.qld.gov.au/services/all/radiation-
oncology)

|

199 Ipswich Road Woolloongabba, QLD, 4102 – (07) 3176 6586

|

Operational  
  
[Mater Centre](https://www.mater.org.au/health/services/mater-cancer-care-
centre)

|

31 Raymond Tce, South Brisbane, QLD, 4101 – (07) 3163 5200

|

Operational  
  
[Royal Brisbane and Women’s
Hospital](https://metronorth.health.qld.gov.au/rbwh/healthcare-
services/cancer-care)

|

Level 4, Joyce Tweddell Building, Butterfield Street, Herston, QLD, 4029 -
(07) 36467751

|

Operational  
  
[Sunshine Coast University Hospital Cancer
Centre](https://www.darlingdowns.health.qld.gov.au/services/radiation-
oncology/radiation-oncology-sunshine-coast-university-hospital)

|

6 Doherty Street, Birtinya, QLD, 4575 – (07) 5202 1111

|

Operational  
  
[Townsville General
Hospital](https://www.townsville.health.qld.gov.au/services/cancer-
services/adult-cancer-services/radiation-therapy/)

|

100 Angus Smith Drive, Douglas, QLD, 4814 – (07) 4433 1663

|

Operational  
  
Private  
  
[GenesisCare Buderim Monserrat Day Hospital
](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/buderim-oncology)

|

10 King Street, Buderim, QLD, 4556 – (07) 5374 810

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Chermside](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/chermside)

|

Chermside Medical Complex, 956 Gympie Road, Chermside, QLD, 4032 – (07) 3917
4400

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Hervey Bay](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/st-
stephens-hospital-oncology)

|

1 Medical Place, Urraween, QLD, 4655 – (07) 4120 6600

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Cairns](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/cairns/)

|

203 Lake Street, Cairns North, QLD, 4870 – (07) 4036 5200

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Greenslopes](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/greenslopes/)

|

Greenslopes Private Hospital, Newdegate Street, Greenslopes, QLD, 4120 – (07)
3099 8400

|

Operational  
  
Icon Cancer Care Centre Ipswich

|

|

Not yet operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Mackay](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/mackay/)

|

148 Sams Road, North Mackay,QLD, 4740 – (07) 4961 3200

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Maroochydore](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/maroochydore/)

|

60 Wises Road, Maroochydore, Qld, 4558 – (07) 5414 3700

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre North Lakes](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/north-
lakes/)

|

9 McLennan Court, North Lakes, QLD, 4509 – (07) 3453 0000

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Redland](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/redland/)

|

Bayside Business Park, 16-24 Weippin Street, Cleveland, QLD,4163 – (07) 3050
9000

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Springfield](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/springfield/)

|

Mater Private Hospital, Cancer Care Centre, Level 1, 30 Health Care Drive,
Springfield, Qld, 4300 – (07) 3447 1900

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Toowoomba](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/toowoomba/)

|

St Andredw’s Cancer Care Centre,280 North Street, Toowoomba, Qld,4350 – (07)
4614 5800

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Rockhampton](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/rockhampton-oncology)

|

Rockhampton Hospital, Lower Ground Floor, Canning Street, Rockhampton, Qld,
4700 – (07) 4932 5000

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Southport](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/southport-
qld)

|

39 White Street, Southport, Qld, 4215 – (07) 5552 1400

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare St Stephen’s Hervey Bay ](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/st-stephens-hospital-oncology)

|

1 Medical Place, Urraween, QLD, 4655 – (07) 4120 6600

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare The Mater Misericordiae Hospital
Bundaberg](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/mater-hospital-
bundaberg-oncology)

|

313 Bourbong Street, Bundaberg West, QLD, 4670 – (07) 4154 9900

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare The Wesley](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/wesley-
hospital)

|

The Wesley Medical Centre, 1/40 Chasely Street, Auchenflower, QLD, 4066 – (07)
3377 4200

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Tugun](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/tugun-qld-
oncology)

|

John Flynn Private Hospital, 42 Inland Drive, Tugun, QLD, 4224 – (07) 55073600

|

Operational  
  
### Victoria

Name | Address | Status  
---|---|---  
Public  
  
[Andrew Love Cancer
Centre](http://www.barwonhealth.org.au/services/item/andrew-love-cancer-
centre)

|

70 Swanston Street, Geelong Vic 3220 – 03 4215 2700

|

Operational  
  
[Ballarat Regional Integrated Cancer
Centre](http://bricc.bhs.org.au/radiation-therapy.php)

|

1 Drummond Street North, Ballarat Vic 3350 – 03 5320 8500

|

Operational  
  
[Bendigo Radiotherapy Centre](https://www.petermac.org/location/bendigo)

|

100 Barnard Street, Bendigo Vic 3550 – 03 5454 9234

|

Operational  
  
[Gippsland Cancer Care Centre](http://www.lrh.com.au/services/hospital-based-
services/cancer-care/91-gippsland-cancer-care-centre)

|

10 Village Avenue, Traralgon West Vic 3844 – 03 5173 8000

|

Operational  
  
[Olivia Newton-John Cancer Wellness and Research
Centre](http://www.onjcancercentre.org/patients-family/diagnosis-
treatment/your-wellness-matters/cancer-treatment/radiotherapy)

|

145 Studley Road , Heidelberg Vic 3084 – 03 9496 5000

|

Operational  
  
[Peter Mac at Box Hill](https://www.petermac.org/location/box-hill)

|

1 Arnold Street, Box Hill Vic 3128 – 03 8559 9269

|

Operational  
  
[Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre – Parkville](https://www.petermac.org/)

|

305 Grattan Street, Melbourne Vic 3000 – 03 8559 5000

|

Operational  
  
[Sunshine Hospital Radiation Therapy
Centre](https://www.petermac.org/location/sunshine)

|

176 Furlong Road, St Albans VIC 3021 – 03 8395 9999

|

Operational  
  
[The Monash Cancer Centre](https://www.petermac.org/location/moorabbin)

|

823–865 Centre Road, East Bentleigh Vic 3165 – 03 9928 8901

|

Operational  
  
[William Buckland Radiotherapy Centre (Alfred
Hospital)](https://www.alfredhealth.org.au/services/hp/radiation-oncology)

|

55 Commercial Road, Melbourne Vic 3004 – 03 9076 2000

|

Operational  
  
Private  
  
[Berwick Oncology and Radiation Therapy
centre](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/berwick-oncology)

|

55 Kangan Drive, Berwick Vic 3806 – 03 8794 2700

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Epworth
Freemasons](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/epworth-freemasons/)

|

124 Grey Street, East Melbourne Vic 3002 – 03 9483 3331

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Epworth
Richmond](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/epworth-richmond/)

|

Level 4, 32 Erin Street, Richmond Vic 3121 – 03 9936 8277

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Geelong](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/geelong/)

|

1 Epworth Place, Waurn Ponds Vic 3216 – 03 4225 6020

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Mildura](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/mildura/)

|

3-4 Healthscope Court, Mildura Vic 3500 – 03 5001 8700

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Mulgrave](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/mulgrave/)

|

Blanton Drive, Mulgrave Vic 3170 – 03 8726 1600

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Warrnambool](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/warrnambool/)

|

28–30 Ryot Street, Warrnambool Vic 3280 – 03 5565 2000

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Cabrini Hospital, Malvern ](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/cabrini-gandel-wing)

|

Level B4, 183 Wattletree Road, Malvern Vic 3144 – 03 9597 6900

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Epping Radiation Oncology
Centre](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/epping)

|

230 Cooper Street, Epping Vic 3076 – 03 9409 8000

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Frankston Radiation Oncology
Centre](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/frankston)

|

5 Susono Way, Frankston Vic 3199 – 03 9781 8200

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Radiation Oncology Centre at St Vincent’s
Hospital](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/st-vincents)

|

Building C, 41 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy Vic 3065 – 03 9427 6500

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Ringwood radiation Oncology
Centre](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/ringwood-oncology)

|

36 Mount Dandenong Road, Ringwood East Vic 3135 – 03 8870 3300

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Shepparton Oncology Centre](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/shepparton/)

|

124 Corio Street, Shepparton Vic 3630 – 03 5825 9700

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Western Radiation Oncology
Centre](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/footscray)

|

1 Marion Street, Footscray Vic 3011 – 03 9319 3200

|

Operational  
  
### South Australia

Name | Address | Status  
---|---|---  
Public  
  
[Lyell McEwin
Hospital](https://www.sahealth.sa.gov.au/wps/wcm/connect/public+content/sa+health+internet/services/hospitals/lyell+mcewin+hospital/lyell+mcewin+hospital)

|

Haydown Road , Elizabeth Vale SA 5112 – 08 8182 9000

|

Operational  
  
[Royal Adelaide Hospital](https://www.rah.sa.gov.au/patients-and-
visitors/conditions-services-and-clinics/medical-conditions/cancer)

|

Port Road, Adelaide SA 5000 – 08 7074 0000

|

Operational  
  
Private  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Windsor
Gardens](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/windsor-gardens/)

|

480 North East Road, Windsor Gardens SA 5087 – 08 8164 3600

|

Operational  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Noarlunga](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/noarlunga/)

|

10 Morton Road, Christie Downs, SA, 5164 – 08 8246 5970

|

Operational  
  
Icon Cancer Centre Calvary North Adelaide Hospital

|

|

Not yet operational  
  
[Genesis Care Calvary Central Districts Hospital, Elizabeth
Vale](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/calvary-central-districts-
hospital)

|

Jarvis Road, Elizabeth Vale SA 5112 – 08 7285 6400

|

Operational  
  
[Genesis Care Flinders Private Hospital ](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/flinders-private-hospital)

|

1 Flinders Drive, Bedford Park SA 5042 – 08 8179 5500

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare South Terrace](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/st-
andrews-adelaide-oncology)

|

352 South Terrace, Adelaide SA 5000 – 08 8228 6700

|

Operational  
  
[Genesis Care Tennyson Centre](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/kurralta-park)

|

506 South Road, Kurralta Park SA 5037 – 08 8292 2370

|

Operational  
  
### Western Australia

Name | Address | Status  
---|---|---  
Public  
  
[Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital,
Nedlands](https://www.scgh.health.wa.gov.au/Our-Services/Service-
directory/Radiation-Oncology)

|

Hospital Avenue, Nedlands WA 6009 – 08 6383 3000

|

Operational  
  
Private  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Rockingham](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/rockingham/)

|

2 Civic Boulevard, Rockingham WA 6168 – 08 9500 7800

|

Operational  
  
[Genesis Care Fiona Stanley Hospital](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/fiona-stanley-hospital)

|

102–118 Murdoch Drive, Murdoch WA 6150 – 08 6318 2882

|

Operational  
  
[Genesis Care Joondalup – Shenton House ](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/shenton-house-joondalup-oncology)

|

Level 3, 57 Shenton Avenue, Joondalup WA 6027 – 08 9400 6213

|

Operational  
  
[Genesis Care Mandurah](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/mandurah-
oncology/)

|

Unit 3/35 Minilya Parkway, Greenfields WA 6210 – 08 9559 2900

|

Operational  
  
[Genesis Care South West Radiation Oncology Service
(Bunbury)](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/bunbury-oncology)

|

Corner of Bussell Highway and Roberston Drive, Bunbury WA 6230 – 08 9726 6400

|

Operational  
  
[Genesis Care Perth Radiation Oncology Centre
(Wembley)](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/wembley)

|

24 Salvado Road, Wembley WA 6014 – 08 6318 2868

|

Operational  
  
[GenesisCare Albany](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-centres/albany-
oncology)

|

30 Warden Avenue, Spencer Park, WA, 6330 – 08 6819 7900

|

Operational  
  
[St John of God Murdoch Hospital](https://www.genesiscare.com/au/our-
centres/murdoch-oncology)

|

100 Murdoch Drive, Murdoch WA 6150 – (08) 9366 1500

|

Operational  
  
Icon Cancer Centre Geraldton | TBC | Not yet operational  
Icon Cancer Centre Narrogin | TBC | Not yet operational  
  
### Tasmania

Name

|

Address

|

Status  
  
---|---|---  
  
Public  
  
[Royal Hobart Hospital – WP Holman
Clinic](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/hospitals/royal-hobart-hospital)

|

48 Liverpool Street, Hobart Tas 7000 – 03 6166 8308

|

Operational  
  
[Launceston General Hospital – WP Holman
Clinic](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/hospitals/launceston-general-hospital)

|

274–280 Charles Street, Launceston Tas 7250 – 03 6777 6777

|

Operational  
  
Private  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre Hobart](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/hobart/)

|

2 Melville Street (entrance off Campbell Street), Hobart Tas 7000 – 03 6240
2600

|

Operational  
  
### Australian Capital Territory

Name

|

Address

|

Status  
  
---|---|---  
Public  
  
[Canberra Hospital](https://www.health.act.gov.au/health-
professionals/medical-professionals/cancer-service-referral/radiation-
oncology)

|

Corner Yamba Drive and Hindmarsh Drive, Garran ACT 2605 – 02 5124 8444

|

Operational  
  
Private  
  
[Icon Cancer Centre
Canberra](https://iconcancercentre.com.au/centre/canberra/)

|

Corner Broula and Allawoona Streets, Bruce ACT 2617 – 02 5112 0200

|

Operational  
  
### Northern Territory

Name

|

Address

|

Statu **s**  
  
---|---|---  
  
Public  
  
[Alan Walker Cancer Care Centre](https://nt.gov.au/wellbeing/cancer-
services/alan-walker-cancer-care-centre)

|

Rocklands Drive, Tiwi NT 0810 – 08 8944 8220

|

Operational  
  
Private  
  
Icon Cancer Centre Alice Springs | TBC | Not yet operational  
  
## Learn more

For more information about radiation oncology, see:

  * [healthdirect ](http://www.healthdirect.gov.au/radiotherapy-and-other-cancer-treatments)
  * [Radiation Oncology Targeting Cancer](http://www.targetingcancer.com.au/)

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants contact ](/contacts/radiation-
oncology-health-program-grants-contact?language=en)

Contact us for information about the Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants
or to submit an application.

[radiation.oncology@health.gov.au](mailto:radiation.oncology@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

23 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

