Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Health alerts](/health-alerts)
  3. [Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19)
  4. [Physical, mental and financial support](/health-alerts/covid-19/support)

[Physical, mental and financial support](/health-alerts/covid-19/support)

# Mental health support

The ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic may make you feel anxious,
stressed and worried. Learn about mental support services you can access.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Mental health support&url=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/support/mental-health)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/support/mental-health)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Mental health support&body=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/support/mental-health)

Loading...

On this page

## Mental health support during COVID-19

You can access up to 10 extra Medicare subsidised psychological therapy
sessions each year until 31 December 2022.

To access the extra sessions you must:

  * have a mental health treatment plan
  * have used the initial 10 individual [Better Access](/our-work/better-access-initiative "Better Access initiative") sessions in the calendar year you sought a referral
  * receive a referral for the additional 10 sessions from your reviewing health care provider.

Your health care provider will decide how many sessions you can receive in
your referral.

If you have a current referral (either for the initial 10 sessions or the
additional 10 sessions) and have not used all of the sessions, you can use
that referral to access sessions in 2023. However, you cannot receive more
than 10 individual sessions in 2023.

Information on the MBS items available for Better Access sessions is available
on [MBS
Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home).

[Read
more](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/additional-10-mbs-
mental-health-sessions-during-covid-19-faqs-for-consumers) about this change.

**Other available support**

You can speak with your GP about whether Primary Health Network (PHN)
commissioned services may be appropriate in their circumstances. PHNs are
funded by the Government to commission a range of mental health and suicide
prevention services at a regional level, this includes for people who are
underserviced by the MBS. Contact details for [PHNs](/our-work/phn "Primary
Health Networks") are available.

You may also like to consider using digital services. You can use digital
services to complement, or as an alternative to, face-to-face therapies. They
allow you to seek support in times of need, when and where it’s most
convenient. The Government’s digital mental health gateway, Head to Health, is
a consumer-friendly website that aims to help people more easily access
information. Head to Health provides advice and free or low cost phone and
online counselling, treatment and crisis support. Further information is
available at the head to health [website](https://www.headtohealth.gov.au/).

**Head to Health Pop Ups for people living in NSW and Victoria**

Head to Health Pop Up clinics were initially established to provide additional
support to people of all ages living in New South Wales and Victoria who were
experiencing mental health issues because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

All clinics offer free telehealth or COVID-safe face-to-face appointments.
Services are delivered by a multidisciplinary team of skilled mental health
professionals. To access these clinics, make a free call to 1800 595 212 –
Monday to Friday, 8:30 am to 5:00 pm (except public holidays).

A GP referral or mental health treatment plan is not required.

Pop Up clinics will transition over time to permanent services currently being
established by the Commonwealth and state and territory Governments.

For more information about Head to Health services including Pop Up clinics
visit [www.headtohealth.gov.au](http://www.headtohealth.gov.au) or call: 1800
595 212.

## If you need help now

If you need help right now, services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week, anywhere in Australia:

  * [Lifeline](/contacts/lifeline "Lifeline")
  * [Beyond Blue Support Service](https://www.health.gov.au/contacts/beyond-blue-support-service)
  * [Translating and Interpreting Service](/contacts/translating-and-interpreting-service-tis-national "Translating and Interpreting Service \(TIS\) National") (TIS National)
  * [Kids helpline](/contacts/kids-helpline-contact "Kids Helpline contact")
  * [Suicide Call Back Service](/contacts/suicide-call-back-service "Suicide Call Back Service")

If you are experiencing an emergency:

[Call 000](tel: 000)

## Other support

Other support to help you through the COVID-19 pandemic is available.

Learn more about [financial support](/health-
alerts/covid-19/support/financial-supports-and-hotspots "Financial support ").

Learn how to access [health care and medicines](/health-
alerts/covid-19/support/access-health-care-and-medicine "Access to health care
and medicines").

Last updated:

12 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Coronavirus (COVID-19)](/health-alerts/covid-19)

  * [About the pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19/about)
  * [Case numbers](/health-alerts/covid-19/case-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Symptoms](/health-alerts/covid-19/symptoms)
  * [Protect yourself and others](/health-alerts/covid-19/protect-yourself-and-others)
  * [COVID-19 treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/about)
  * [Testing](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing)
  * [Testing positive, and close contacts](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing-positive)
  * [Domestic travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/domestic-travel)
  * [International travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/international-travel)
  * [Physical, mental and financial support](/health-alerts/covid-19/support)
    * [Access health care and medicine](/health-alerts/covid-19/support/access-health-care-and-medicine)
    * [Mental health](/health-alerts/covid-19/support/mental-health)
    * [Financial support and hotspots](/health-alerts/covid-19/support/financial-supports-and-hotspots)
  * [Advice for groups at greater risk](/health-alerts/covid-19/advice-for-groups-at-risk)
  * [For aged care sector](/topics/aged-care/advice-on-aged-care-during-covid-19)
  * [For health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)
  * [Government response](/health-alerts/covid-19/government-response)
  * [Translated information](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

