Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)
  3. [Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

[Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

# Chief Allied Health Officer Newsletter Issue 4 – December 2022

In this issue: message from Dr Anne-marie Boxall, updates on strengthening
Medicare Taskforce engagement with Allied Health Sector, Online Aged Care
Training Material and Health Roundtable news held in Hobart in November 2022.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Chief Allied Health Officer Newsletter Issue 4 – December 2022&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/chief-allied-health-officer-newsletter-issue-4-december-2022)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/chief-allied-health-officer-newsletter-issue-4-december-2022)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Chief Allied Health Officer Newsletter Issue 4 – December 2022&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/chief-allied-health-officer-newsletter-issue-4-december-2022)

Loading...

Date published:

22 December 2022

Audience:

Health sector

On this page

## Message from Dr Anne-marie Boxall

Thank you, again, for another year of hard work throughout 2022. As I look
back across the challenges we have faced, I continue to be impressed by the
allied health sector’s commitment to helping Australians improve their health
and wellbeing.

I know that many allied health professionals will continue to work over the
Christmas and New Year period, and I would like to particularly recognise and
thank those people for their service. I hope you all get to experience some
down-time at some point over the holiday season.

We have had some significant achievements this year – a highlight for me was
the Australia New Zealand Allied Health Summit, which I co-hosted with the Dr
Martin Chadwick, Chief Allied Health Profession Officer Aotearoa New Zealand.
This two-day event brought together health professionals, professional bodies,
researchers, and policy makers to explore and understand the value and utility
allied health provides to patients and the health system. I was very impressed
by the high quality of research presented, and I draw from these examples when
presenting evidence to Government on the role of allied health. View the
[recordings and summary of the event](/news/presentations-and-recordings-from-
the-recent-australianew-zealand-allied-health-summit-are-now-available
"Presentations and recordings from the recent Australia/New Zealand Allied
Health Summit are now available").

Please feel free to contact my office at
[caho@health.gov.au](mailto:caho@health.gov.a) if you would like to get in
touch about topics for the newsletter in 2023, or other allied health matters.

Best wishes  
Anne-marie

## Health Roundtable – Allied Health Workshop held in Hobart 2-3 November 2022

Dr Anne-marie Boxall and Dr Martin Chadwick, Chief Allied Health Professions
Officer Aotearoa New Zealand, attended the Health Roundtable Allied Health
workshop in Hobart 2-3 November 2022. This was an enjoyable two days of
professionally stimulating content and networking among peers.

Health Roundtable members from across Australasia heard the strategic visions
of both CAHOs, took part in group discussions around data
collection/reporting, and heard how Andrew Slattery from Canberra Hospital
used this information to inform service planning. The group saw presentations
from the top-voted innovations of 2022 and planned their service improvement
initiatives for 2022.

The innovations presented during the Health Roundtable event included:

  * Oystein Tronstad 
    * Digital Pre-Operative Physiotherapy Education for Cardiac Surgical Patients
    * Metro North HHS Qld
  * Leanne Browne 
    * Capacity at a Glance: A Variance Indicator Board tool
    * Te Whatu Ora Waitematā
  * Georgina Rosee and Katie Beckett 
    * Through Thick and Thin: A novel eMR solution for thickened fluids and non-compliant medications
    * Central Coast LHD NSW
  * Samantha Gilmour 
    * OT post discharge intervention reduces ED representation rates in older adults
    * Sir Charles Gairdner Osborne Park Health Care Group WA
  * Ellie Bills 
    * My PreHab Program
    * Central Adelaide LHN SA

This was a wonderful opportunity to connect with Allied Health professionals
from across Australasia and may open the door to further collaboration.

![Dr Annie-Marie Boxall \(Chief Allied Health Officer\), Mr Oystein Tronstand
\(Queensland Health\), and Dr Martin Chadwick \(Chief Allied Health
Professions Officer, New
Zealand\).](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-12/allied_health_photograph.jpg?itok=qFs5bvk7)

Dr Annie-Marie Boxall (Chief Allied Health Officer), Mr Oystein Tronstand
(Queensland Health), and Dr Martin Chadwick (Chief Allied Health Professions
Officer, New Zealand).

## National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island Health Academy in the ACT

2022 has seen the first intake of students to the [National Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander Health Academy](https://iaha.com.au/careers-and-
pathways/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health-academy/) (NATSIHA) in
the ACT. NATSIHA is a transferrable and sustainable education and training
program aimed at creating opportunities for Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait
Islander high school students to consider a career in health and wellbeing.
The NATSIHA is an innovative, community led training model that is about
tailoring training to ensure engagement, retention and success for Aboriginal
and/or Torres Strait Islander students. The model is designed and managed by
Indigenous Allied Health Australia (IAHA) to ensure training and education is
delivered in a way that embeds the centrality of culture and a holistic
approach to health as well as developing the technical capabilities associated
with health and wellbeing professional practice. The Academy model allows
students to consider a career in health, whilst creating a genuine pathway to
enable students to gain relevant industry qualifications through a preferred
school-based apprenticeship model and to gain future employment in the health
and related sectors as clinicians, administrators and support workers (IAHA,
2021). The ACT implementation of the Academy has been a true collaboration
across IAHA, University of Canberra, Canberra Institute of Technology and the
ACT Government. Nine (9) students have completed the first year of the
program, with 3 students (2 year 12 and 1 year 11) graduating in a fast-
tracked program with a Certificate III in Allied Health Assistance. Placements
have been completed at Canberra Health Services and University of Canberra
Health Hub. Our next area of focus will be on employment pathways for
graduates.

## Updates on key pieces of work in the Department

### Strengthening Medicare Taskforce Update

The Minister for Health and Aged Care, the Hon Mark Butler MP, established the
Strengthening Medicare Taskforce (Taskforce) to provide recommendations on the
highest priority investments in primary care by the end of 2022, supported by
the $750 million Strengthening Medicare Fund. The Taskforce considered ways to
improve patient access to general practice including after hours,
multidisciplinary team care, greater affordability for patients, better
prevention and management of ongoing and chronic health conditions, and
decreased pressure on hospitals.

Opportunities to strengthen the role of allied health professionals was
considered by the Taskforce, with Mr Antony Nicholas, Board Chair of Allied
Health Professions Australia, representing all allied health professions.
Taskforce ddeliberations were supported by presentations including one from
the Australian Psychological Society that focussed on the current challenges
and opportunities in delivering multidisciplinary care to achieve the best
outcomes for people experiencing mental health concerns.

Taskforce members agreed that multidisciplinary team-based care models in
primary health have a range of benefits for patients, providers, and the
health system, which are best achieved through collaboration across
professions to achieve person-centred care. The Taskforce acknowledged that by
shifting funding towards blended models this could provide a greater level of
flexibility to harness the strengths and skills of the diverse health
workforce that can better serve to meet the needs of patients. The Taskforce
acknowledged the importance of also supporting nurse-led, allied health and
other primary care business models that work alongside general practice to
deliver primary healthcare services to the community. Enablers to
multidisciplinary team-based care were discussed, including access and sharing
of MyHealthRecord and education and training to ensure workers have the skills
required for multidisciplinary models of working.

The Taskforce will finalise its recommendations to Government by the end of
the year. View details of the Taskforce including [communiques](/committees-
and-groups/strengthening-medicare-taskforce "Strengthening Medicare
Taskforce").  

## MBS Review Taskforce engagement with the Allied Health Sector

### Allied Health Implementation Liaison Group

The Allied Health Implementation Liaison Group (AHILG) was established to
support the implementation of the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review
Taskforce recommendations on Allied Health MBS items. The AHILG had their
fourth and last meeting on 1 November 2022. The AHILG provided important
advice on the 1 March 2023 implementation of changes to the Autism Spectrum
Disorder, Complex Neurodevelopmental Disorders, and Eligible Disabilities
items (currently Autism, Pervasive Development Disorder and Disability
Services). Further details on these changes can be found in [issue
two](/news/newsletters/chief-allied-health-officer-newsletter-
issue-2-december-2021 "Chief Allied Health Officer Newsletter Issue 2 –
December 2021") of the CAHO newsletter and will be published under factsheets
at [MBS
Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/factsheet-
current).

### First Nations Australians Implementation Liaison Group

The First Nations Australians Implementation Liaison Group (ILG) was
established in November 2022 to provide advice on the implementation of
recommendation 4 – to pool access to allied health items that are available
following the completion of a Health Assessment and the creation of a GP
Management Plan/Team Care Arrangement. This ILG had their first meeting on 7
December 2022. More information on this recommendation can be found in the MBS
Review Taskforce report on Primary Care.

For updates on the MBS Review and implementation of recommendation you can
[subscribe to the MBS Reviews newsletter](/using-our-
websites/subscriptions/subscribe-to-the-mbs-review-newsletter "Subscribe to
the MBS Review newsletter").

## Changes to Group Therapy under the MBS items – Better Access Initiative

On 1 November 2022, changes were introduced to the Medicare Benefits Schedule
(MBS) to encourage the uptake of group therapy to be delivered under the
Better Access to Psychiatrists, Psychologists and General Practitioners
through the Medicare Benefits Schedule (Better Access) initiative.

These changes were announced in the 2021-22 Budget and consist of a revised
structure for group therapy MBS items under Better Access. The changes
include:

  * Introduction of 16 new MBS items for group therapy sessions lasting at least 90 minutes or 120 minutes
  * Amendments to the eight existing MBS items to reduce the minimum number of patients required to hold a group therapy session from 6 to 4, and
  * Allowing all group therapy MBS items to be claimed with only three patients, if four patients were scheduled to attend but one patient does not attend (for example, due to unforeseen circumstances).

Further information on the new and amended MBS items available to deliver
group therapy is available on MBS Online in explanatory notes
[MN.6.7](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=MN.6.7&qt=noteID&criteria=MN%2E6%2E7)
and
[MN.7.4](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=MN.7.4&qt=noteID&criteria=MN%2E7%2E4),
as well as in the fact sheet [Group Therapy MBS Changes under the Better
Access
Initiative](https://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/factsheet-
current).

## Aged Care Sector

### New Code of Conduct for Aged Care Sector

The new [Code of Conduct for Aged Care](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-reforms-
and-reviews/royal-commission-into-aged-care-quality-and-safety/code-of-
conduct-for-aged-care "Code of Conduct for Aged Care ") (the Code) commenced
on 1 December 2022 and sets out standards of behaviour for approved providers,
their aged care workers, and governing persons. Aged care workers include
people directly employed by the approved providers, those employed by a
contractor or subcontractor of the provider, and volunteers.

The Code will improve the safety, health, wellbeing, and quality of life for
older Australians by ensuring they receive suitable standards of care.

Find support resources, including guidance materials for providers and
workers, on the Code’s webpage on the
[Commission’s](https://www.agedcarequality.gov.au/providers/code-conduct-aged-
care-information-providers) and [Department’s website](/topics/aged-care/aged-
care-reforms-and-reviews/royal-commission-into-aged-care-quality-and-
safety/code-of-conduct-for-aged-care "Code of Conduct for Aged Care ").

### Online aged care training material

The Department of Health and Aged Care is working with the Wicking Dementia
Research and Education Centre at the University of Tasmania to develop
introductory and refresher learning modules for aged care workers, including
allied health professionals working in aged care.

These are also available for anyone with an interest in caring for older
people. The first six modules are now available for free online. All modules
are expected to be available by March 2023.

The modules take about 10 minutes to complete and cover a range of topics
including:

  * dementia and palliative care
  * trauma-informed care
  * wound management
  * cross-cultural awareness
  * oral health 
  * mental health and wellbeing 
  * falls management. 

Each module is accompanied by interactive learning materials and links to
further learning opportunities to enable ongoing group or individual on-demand
learning.

[Find out more](https://equiplearning.utas.edu.au/)

## National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with Intellectual
Disability

The [National Roadmap for Improving the Health of People with Intellectual
Disability](/our-work/national-roadmap-for-improving-the-health-of-people-
with-intellectual-disability "National Roadmap for Improving the Health of
People with Intellectual Disability") (the Roadmap) was released in 2021 and
aims to address serious health inequities faced by people with intellectual
disability. Updates on 2 priority Roadmap projects are provided below.

### Primary Care Enhancement Program (PCEP) for People with Intellectual
Disability

The [Primary Care Enhancement Program](/ministers/the-hon-greg-hunt-
mp/media/greater-support-for-australians-with-an-intellectual-disability
"Greater support for Australians with an intellectual disability") (PCEP) is a
$6.6 million pilot project under the Roadmap. The PCEP is being delivered in
four Primary Health Network (PHN) regions. The PCEP will:

  * provide greater support for GPs, through training and [resources](/resources/collections/resources-for-health-professionals-managing-patients-with-intellectual-disability "Resources for health professionals managing patients with intellectual disability") and other health professionals to provide more effective care to people with intellectual disability, and
  * give people with intellectual disability better access to appropriate, quality health services and [resources](/resources/collections/resources-for-health-professionals-managing-patients-with-intellectual-disability "Resources for health professionals managing patients with intellectual disability") that meet their needs.

Health Professionals who work in one of the four PHN regions below are
eligible to access free case-based training until June 2024. The training is
being delivered via online and face-to-face formats and co-facilitated by an
expert clinician and a person with intellectual disability. The training
includes a module that is tailored to **Allied Health Professionals**. For
details about timing and access, please contact:

  * Central and Eastern Sydney  
[Project GROW webpage](https://cesphn.org.au/allied-health/help-my-patients-
with/intellectual-disability)  
[intellectualdisability@cesphn.com.au](mailto:intellectualdisability@cesphn.com.au)

  * Tasmania   
[lrichardson@primaryhealthtas.com.au](mailto:lrichardson@primaryhealthtas.com.au)

  * Western Victoria  
[spidah@westvicphn.com.au](mailto:spidah@westvicphn.com.au)

  * Central Queensland, Wide Bay and Sunshine Coast  
[pcep@ourphn.org.au](mailto:pcep@ourphn.org.au)

### Intellectual Disability Health Curriculum Development Project

The Department of Health and Aged Care (the Department) is leading the
Intellectual Disability Health Curriculum Development Project, a short-term
action under the Roadmap. A key component of the project is the development of
an Intellectual Disability Health Capability Framework (the Framework). The
Department is seeking feedback on the initial set of draft core capabilities
that have been developed for the Framework.

The public consultation on the draft capabilities is open until 27 January
2023 and can be accessed through the Department’s [Consultation
Hub](https://consultations.health.gov.au/primary-care-mental-health-
division/intellectual-disability-health-core-capabilities/).

## New infrastructure grant for allied health clinic in Emerald, Queensland

In the October 2022 Budget, the Government announced a $2.8 million dollar
commitment to an additional allied health building at the Emerald GP Super
Clinic, Queensland.

The proposed building will be co-located at the existing health campus and
would include 10 practice rooms, a large measurement and assessment room and
dedicated training facilities for allied health professionals.

The expected deliverable from the project is expanded scope of allied health
services to the community and enhanced capacity for trainee medical
professionals to conduct their placements in regional Queensland.

[Find out more](/resources/publications/budget-october-2022-23-portfolio-
budget-statements "Budget October 2022–⁠23: Portfolio Budget Statements") on
this capital works initiative and other Health Budget measures.

## Feedback

I welcome your feedback on the newsletter or topics you would like to hear
about via [caho@health.gov.au](mailto:caho@health.gov.au)

Tags:

  * [Allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

