Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

[Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

# What we’re doing about chronic conditions

We develop policies and programs to support the prevention, management and
treatment of chronic conditions. We also support research that focuses on
chronic conditions.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we’re doing about chronic conditions&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we’re doing about chronic conditions&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)

Loading...

On this page

## Consultation and engagement

We regularly consult the Australian public about issues that affect health.
Check our [consultations hub](https://consultations.health.gov.au/) for
details of any currently [open
consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au/consultation_finder/?sort_on=iconsultable_enddate&sort_order=ascending&advanced=1&st=open#cs-
finder-results-container) related to chronic conditions.

## Policy work

We develop policies to support the prevention, management and treatment of
chronic conditions.

These include:

  * the [National Strategic Framework for Chronic Conditions](/resources/publications/national-strategic-framework-for-chronic-conditions "National Strategic Framework for Chronic Conditions"), to help prevent and manage chronic conditions in Australia
  * The [Implementation Plan for the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Plan 2013–2023](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-implementation-plan), which addresses chronic conditions.

We have developed, or are in the process of developing, national strategic
action plans for several chronic conditions. See what we’re doing about:

  * [cardiovascular conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-cardiovascular-conditions "What we’re doing about cardiovascular conditions") (including our action plan for [childhood heart disease](/resources/publications/national-strategic-action-plan-for-childhood-heart-disease "National Strategic Action Plan for Childhood Heart Disease"))
  * [chronic eye conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-eye-conditions "What we’re doing about chronic eye conditions") (including our action plan for [macular disease](/resources/publications/national-strategic-action-plan-for-macular-disease "National Strategic Action Plan for Macular Disease"))
  * [diabetes ](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-diabetes "What we’re doing about diabetes")(including our [implementation plan for the Australian National Diabetes Strategy 2016–2020](/resources/publications/implementation-plan-for-the-australian-national-diabetes-strategy-2016-2020 "Implementation plan for the Australian National Diabetes Strategy 2016–2020"))
  * [endometriosis ](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-endometriosis "What we’re doing about endometriosis")(including our [action plan](/resources/publications/national-action-plan-for-endometriosis "National Action Plan for Endometriosis"))
  * [lung and respiratory conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-lung-and-respiratory-conditions "What we’re doing about lung and respiratory conditions") (including our action plan for [lung conditions](/resources/publications/national-strategic-action-plan-for-lung-conditions "National Strategic Action Plan for Lung Conditions") and national strategy for [asthma](/resources/publications/national-asthma-strategy-2018 "National Asthma Strategy 2018"))
  * [musculoskeletal conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-musculoskeletal-conditions "What we’re doing about musculoskeletal conditions") (including our action plan for arthritis and osteoporosis)
  * [rare diseases](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-rare-diseases "What we’re doing about rare diseases")
  * [other chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-other-chronic-conditions "What we’re doing about other chronic conditions") (including [inflammatory bowel disease](/resources/publications/national-strategic-action-plan-for-inflammatory-bowel-disease "National Strategic Action Plan for Inflammatory Bowel Disease") and chronic pain).

## Initiatives and programs

We tackle chronic conditions at a national level through a range of
[initiatives and programs](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-
initiatives-and-programs "Chronic conditions initiatives and programs") to
support prevention, treatment and management.

Government programs that support care of people with chronic conditions
include:

  * the [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home), which includes items to help treat and manage chronic conditions, such as [Chronic Disease Management plans](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/mbsprimarycare-chronicdisease-pdf-infosheet)
  * the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](http://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home), which subsidises medicines used to treat chronic conditions and their symptoms
  * the [Public Health and Chronic Disease Grant program](/resources/publications/public-health-and-chronic-disease-grant-program-guidelines "Public Health and Chronic Disease Grant Program guidelines"), which supports activities that address the burden of chronic disease and improve public health
  * the [National Diabetes Services Scheme](https://www.ndss.com.au/)
  * the [Inborn Errors of Metabolism](/our-work/inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program "Inborn Errors of Metabolism program") program
  * the [National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme](https://www.ebdressings.com.au/)
  * [support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples with chronic conditions](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support "Chronic disease support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people"), including the [Indigenous Australians’ Health Programme](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/indigenous-programme-lp)
  * funding for peak bodies that focus on chronic conditions to support programs and initiatives
  * evidence-based promotion of healthy lifestyles, including 
    * regular [physical activity](/topics/physical-activity-and-exercise "Physical activity and exercise") and [good nutrition](/topics/food-and-nutrition "Food and nutrition")
    * [tobacco control measures](/topics/smoking-and-tobacco/tobacco-control "Tobacco control")
    * [strategies to reduce harmful levels of alcohol use](/topics/alcohol/about-alcohol/what-were-doing-about-alcohol "What we're doing about alcohol")
  * early detection of [cancer](/topics/cancer "Cancer") and other chronic diseases.

## Research

We fund quality clinical research into chronic conditions through the
[National Health and Medical Research Council
(NHMRC)](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/) and the [Medical Research Future
Fund](/our-work/medical-research-future-fund "Medical Research Future Fund").

We also fund the annual [Australian National Diabetes Audit
(ANDA)](/resources/publications/australian-national-diabetes-audit-anda
"Australian National Diabetes Audit \(ANDA\)"). This survey collects and
reports on diabetes-related data from specialist diabetes centres across
Australia.

## Who we're working with

Our portfolio agency, the [Australian Institute of Health and
Welfare](https://www.aihw.gov.au), publishes reports on [chronic conditions in
Australia](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/health-conditions-disability-
deaths/chronic-disease/overview).

The Australian Bureau of Statistics runs the [National Health
Survey](https://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mf/4364.0.55.001), which
includes information about [chronic
conditions](https://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Lookup/by%20Subject/4364.0.55.001~2017-18~Main%20Features~Chronic%20conditions~25).

Last updated:

20 January 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Alcohol](/topics/alcohol)
  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  * [Physical activity and exercise](/topics/physical-activity-and-exercise)
  * [Food and nutrition](/topics/food-and-nutrition)
  * [Smoking and tobacco](/topics/smoking-and-tobacco)
  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

  * [About chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/about-chronic-conditions)
  * [Chronic conditions in Australia](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-in-australia)
  * [What we’re doing about chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)
    * [Cardiovascular conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-cardiovascular-conditions)
    * [Chronic eye conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-eye-conditions)
    * [Diabetes](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-diabetes)
    * [Endometriosis](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-endometriosis)
    * [Kidney disease](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-kidney-disease)
    * [Lung and respiratory conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-lung-and-respiratory-conditions)
    * [Musculoskeletal conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-musculoskeletal-conditions)
    * [Neurological conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-neurological-conditions)
    * [Rare diseases](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-rare-diseases)
    * [Other chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-other-chronic-conditions)
  * [Managing chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/managing-chronic-conditions)
  * [News](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

