Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# New funding for palliative care projects

Australians who need palliative care will benefit from enhanced workforce
education and training and improved quality through Albanese Government
funding totalling more than $68 million.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=New funding for palliative care projects&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/new-funding-for-palliative-care-projects)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/new-funding-for-palliative-care-projects)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=New funding for palliative care projects&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/new-funding-for-palliative-care-projects)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

26 May 2023

Date published:

26 May 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

Australians who need palliative care will benefit from enhanced workforce
education and training and improved quality through Albanese Government
funding totalling more than $68 million.

Universities, health services and palliative care organisations around the
country will share in $53 million to undertake 14 National Palliative Care
Projects.

The projects focus on:

  * improving palliative care education and training for the primary care, acute care and aged care workforces
  * raising awareness of palliative care and advance care planning
  * quality improvement for care providers
  * increasing palliative care support in rural and regional areas
  * encouraging the uptake of advance care planning. 

This will improve the quality of palliative care in Australia, benefiting
people with life-limiting illnesses and their families, no matter their
cultural background, where they live, or what setting they wish to access
palliative care in.

A further $15.9 million is for the national End of Life Directions for Aged
Care (ELDAC) service to improve the palliative care skills and advance care
planning expertise of aged care providers and GPs caring for older
Australians.

Alongside this new funding, initiatives funded in the recent Budget will help
improve access to palliative care, including better access to care and
medications through a stronger Medicare and the Pharmaceutical Benefits
Scheme, growing the care workforce, and generational reforms in aged care.

The Government’s funding announcement coincides with the end of National
Palliative Care Week – which seeks to inspire conversations about ‘Matters of
Life and Death’ and build awareness and recognition of the people at the heart
of quality palliative care.

See a list of [all Palliative Care Projects and End of Life Directions for
Aged Care Funding](https://markbutler.us8.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=8a3d58d1cfb663c4dcefbc00d&id=40deed0f2c&e=2844165d55).

**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

“The Australian Government is committed to ensuring that people affected by a
life-limiting illness will get the care they need to live well.

“Our role is to provide national leadership, education and policy in
palliative care.

“This commitment is guided by the overall vision of the National Palliative
Care Strategy – and all the projects we are funding are linked to implementing
its goals.”

Tags:

  * [Palliative care](/topics/palliative-care)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

