Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Medicare

Medicare is Australia’s universal health insurance scheme. It guarantees all
Australians (and some overseas visitors) access to a wide range of health and
hospital services at low or no cost. Find out what we’re doing to improve
Medicare for all Australians.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare?language=und)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare?language=und)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare?language=und)

Loading...

###  [ About Medicare ](/topics/medicare/about)

What Medicare is, how it works, who’s eligible and who manages it.

###  [ What's covered ](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers)

What Medicare does and doesn’t cover, and other support programs.

###  [ Safety nets ](/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets)

Safety nets provide extra support to people with high medical costs.

###  [ Compliance ](/topics/medicare/compliance)

How we protect our health payment system from incorrect billing.

![Image shows healthcare workers standing together
smiling.](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-01/health_workforce_0.jpg?itok=XKzGQrsY)

As a health practitioner you must meet certain requirements to bill for
Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) items under Medicare or prescribe subsidised
medicines. Pathology and diagnostic imaging services must also meet
accreditation standards to access Medicare.

[Information for health practitioners](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-
industry "Accessing Medicare for health practitioners and industry")

![Health products portal
screenshot](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-12/health_products_portal.png?itok=aenFJXao)

## Health Products Portal

The Health Products Portal helps us work with the medicines and technology
sector more efficiently. Industry can make, track, pay for, and manage
submissions to list products and services on the Medicare Benefits Schedule
(MBS) or Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Schedule.

[Learn more about the portal](https://hpp.health.gov.au/)

## Latest news

## Latest news

###  [ A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan –
March 2023 ](/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-
officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023-0?language=en)

A newsletter from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan with
updates from the nursing and midwifery sector, some personal priorities and
highlights, and an insight on what's happening across the Department of Health
and Aged Care.

4 April 2023

###  [ A message from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan –
March 2023 ](/news/newsletters/a-message-from-chief-nursing-and-midwifery-
officer-alison-mcmillan-march-2023?language=en)

A newsletter from Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer Alison McMillan with
updates from the nursing and midwifery sector, some personal priorities and
highlights, and an insight on what's happening across the Department of Health
and Aged Care.

4 April 2023

###  [ Victorian woman found guilty of defrauding Medicare ](/news/victorian-
woman-found-guilty-of-defrauding-medicare?language=en)

A Victorian medical receptionist has been sentenced today to 2 years
imprisonment, with a minimum term of 12 months by the Melbourne County Court
after pleading guilty to charging more than $181,000 in fraudulent Medicare
payments.

17 March 2023

[View more
news](/topics/medicare/news?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC)

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![Cover page Dental Benefits Schedule quarterly statistics by state and
territory \(December quarter 2022-23\)](/sites/default/files/2023-02/dental-
benefits-schedule-quarterly-statistics-by-state-and-territory-march-
quarter-2022-23.jpg)

### [Dental Benefits Schedule quarterly statistics by state and territory
(March quarter 2022-23) ](/resources/publications/dental-benefits-schedule-
quarterly-statistics-by-state-and-territory-march-quarter-2022-23?language=en)

15 May 2023

Dataset

This document contains statistics about the use of the Dental Benefits
Schedule in each state and territory, from March quarter 2008–09 to March
quarter 2022-23.

![Cover page Medicare quarterly statistics – bulk billing by Primary Health
Network \(December quarter 2022-23\)](/sites/default/files/2023-02/medicare-
quarterly-statistics-bulk-billing-by-primary-health-network-march-
quarter-2022-23.jpg)

### [Medicare quarterly statistics – bulk billing by Primary Health Network
(March quarter 2022-23) ](/resources/publications/medicare-quarterly-
statistics-bulk-billing-by-primary-health-network-march-
quarter-2022-23?language=en)

15 May 2023

Dataset

This document contains bulk billing statistics for Primary Health Networks,
from September quarter 2009-10 to December quarter 2022-23.

![MBS Quarterly Statistics - Year to Date
Summary](/sites/default/files/2023-02/medicare-statistics-year-to-date-
summary-tables-july-to-march-2022-23.png)

### [Medicare statistics – year-to-date summary tables (July to March 2022–23)
](/resources/publications/medicare-statistics-year-to-date-summary-tables-
july-to-march-2022-23?language=en)

15 May 2023

Dataset

This document contains statistics about the use of Medicare for the March
quarter 2022–23.

![Cover page  annual statistics – Rolling 12 months \(July 2009 to December
2022\)](/sites/default/files/2023-02/medicare-annual-statistics-
rolling-12-months-july-2009-to-march-2023.jpg)

### [Medicare annual statistics – Rolling 12 months (July 2009 to March 2023)
](/resources/publications/medicare-annual-statistics-rolling-12-months-
july-2009-to-march-2023?language=en)

15 May 2023

Dataset

This document contains 12-month rolling statistics about the use of Medicare,
from July 2009 to March 2023.

[View all
resources](/topics/medicare/resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

