Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Cairns medical receptionist sentenced to jail for $178k Medicare fraud

A Cairns woman has been convicted after pleading guilty to fraudulently
claiming more than $178,000 in Medicare payments.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Cairns medical receptionist sentenced to jail for $178k Medicare fraud&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/cairns-medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-178k-medicare-fraud)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/cairns-medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-178k-medicare-fraud)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Cairns medical receptionist sentenced to jail for $178k Medicare fraud&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/cairns-medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-178k-medicare-fraud)

Loading...

Date published:

19 August 2022

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

A Cairns woman has been convicted and sentenced to two years and nine months
imprisonment by the Cairns District Court on Wednesday, 17 August 2022, after
pleading guilty to fraudulently claiming more than $178,000 in Medicare
payments under the Medicare Benefits Scheme (MBS).

Working as a medical receptionist, the woman was charged with one count of
obtaining a financial advantage by deception for electronically submitting 355
false Medicare claims using the details of five medical practitioners.

The woman entered a guilty plea and was sentenced to two years and nine months
imprisonment.

However, the prison sentence was suspended, and she was placed on a good
behaviour bond of two years. The woman is also subjected to two years’
probation and ordered to repay the full amount of $178,548.70.

The Department of Health and Aged Care takes allegations of fraud against
Medicare very seriously.

The department has a strong [health provider compliance
program](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/medicare-compliance) that
protects Australia’s health payments system through the prevention,
identification and treatment of incorrect claiming and fraud by health
providers.

Anyone with information about suspected non-compliance or fraud of Government
health payments by health providers can make a report via the “Reporting
Fraud” page on the Department of Health and Aged Care’s website at
[www.health.gov.au/fraud-tip-offs](http://www.health.gov.au/fraud-tip-offs) or
by calling the Provider Benefits Integrity Hotline on 1800 314 808.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### Departmental media enquiries

Contact for members of the media

[news@health.gov.au](mailto:news@health.gov.au?subject=Media enquiry - News
item ID 3086&body=URL - https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.au%2Fnews%2Fcairns-
medical-receptionist-sentenced-to-jail-for-178k-medicare-fraud)

[02 6289 7400](tel:02 6289 7400)

[View contact](/contacts/departmental-media-enquiries)

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

