Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Assistant Minister McBride – radio interview – ABC Illawarra – 15 May 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's interview with Melinda
James about strengthening Medicare, Medicare Urgent Care Clinics and Barstool
Brothers.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Assistant Minister McBride – radio interview – ABC Illawarra – 15 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-radio-interview-abc-illawarra-15-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-radio-interview-abc-illawarra-15-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Assistant Minister McBride – radio interview – ABC Illawarra – 15 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-radio-interview-abc-illawarra-15-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

15 May 2023

Date published:

16 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**MELINDA JAMES, HOST:** One of the surprises on Budget night was the tripling
of the Medicare incentive for GPs when it comes to bulk billing under 16-year-
olds and concession card holders. To explain that and more of the Government's
health care package, I'm joined now by the Assistant Minister for Health, Emma
McBride, who's in Wollongong today. Good morning to you.

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Good morning Mel, it's good to be with
you.

**JAMES:** Can you explain to me just how the Medicare incentives will work
for GPs? How will it work and what will be the flow on benefits for patients?

**McBRIDE:** What we've seen after a decade of neglect of general practice is
there's simply not enough GPs bulk billing. We've seen sharp drops in bulk
billing right around Australia, including practices that had formerly bulk
billed children under 16, or age pensioners or concession card holders.
Australia's changed a lot since the 80s when Medicare was first started, but
Medicare hadn't kept pace.

So, from the first of November, what our Government is doing is tripling the
bulk billing incentive for doctors. This is supported by a $3.5 billion
investment. What this historic investment will mean is that Australians get
the care they deserve. So, GPs will now have a tripling of the incentive to
bulk bill patients. This has the potential to benefit 11 million Australians,
including 5 million children. And what we know is that this will also cause a
flow on benefit, because GPs will have more financial viability, and they will
then be able to also reduce the co-payments of other Australians.

**JAMES:** I think the Minister, Mark Butler, said that if people go to their
GPs, and their doctor does not bulk bill their child, their under 16-year-old
or them if they're a concession card holder, then people should maybe shop
around for a GP who will. So, is that the Government's view, that that should
be our expectation when we go to the GP, that we should be bulk billed for an
under 16-year-old or a concession card holder?

**McBRIDE:** Well, I was in Tasmania at the Rural Health Conference on the
weekend, and Tasmania has had some of the lowest bulk billing rates across
Australia. And talking to GPs, overwhelmingly they believe that this tripling
of the bulk billing incentive would mean that they could either return to bulk
billing children under 16, or age pensioners, which they'd reluctantly had to
stop doing, and also to be able to continue bulk billing for some practices. I
heard from a practice that was considering stopping bulk billing in the new
financial year, but they believe with this tripling of the incentive that
they'll be able to continue to do so. So, what we're hoping to see is a real
boost in bulk billing right across Australia, particularly in those
communities like much of Tasmania, and particularly regional Tasmania, where
we've seen a sharp drop off.

**JAMES: G** Ps say while it's welcome, of course, that after 10 years of the
Medicare rebate being frozen, that is simply not enough, and that this means
that the cost of providing GP care is still well above what any government is
prepared or willing to subsidise. So GPs say, they'll still be going
backwards, even with the tripling of this incentive. Do you accept that there
are more problems here that won't be solved by this tripling of the incentive?

**McBRIDE:** Strengthening Medicare is the top priority in health for our
Government. Our Government stood up the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce and
was going to be backed in by $750 million, and we've far exceeded that. We're
working very closely with the Royal Australian College of General Practice,
and with the Australian Medical Association. We are determined to turn this
around. We've also introduced grants for general practices, so that they can
invest in their IT capacity, in their infection prevention and control and
equipment. We're working with single employer models so that GPs or doctors in
training can move seamlessly from training in our hospital system to working
in general practice. We're investing in innovative models of care and
multidisciplinary team-based care through the WIP incentive. So there is lots
of investment across the whole of general practice to strengthen it. Because
we are determined to make sure that wherever you live, whatever your bank
balance, you'll be able to access care.

**JAMES:** Another concern that's been put to us by a local GP who runs a
practice as well is that by setting up the system, where you've got the
tripling of the incentive for certain patients who are deserving, of course,
our children and vulnerable, that means that we're setting up a system whereby
those who are ineligible for that tripling of the incentive are subsidising
those who are eligible. They'll still be paying full fee. Their concern is
that it erodes the principles that underpin Medicare, which is free health
care for all. They feel like there'll be some paying for the care of others.
Do feel that's the way the system's going with this?

**McBRIDE:** Medicare was set up and designed 40 years ago to provide
universal health care. Before Medicare was introduced, the main reason someone
ended up bankrupt was because they couldn't pay their medical bills. It's
something that as a Labor Party that set up Medicare and has always supported
Medicare, we are determined to strengthen it to make sure that it's more
robust. And we are continuing to work with the Royal Australian College of
General Practice, with Australian Medical Association and others to do all
that we can to properly provide the financial scaffolding that will mean
general practitioners who want to provide bulk billed care will be able to do
so. And through the tripling of the bulk billing incentive, and the rebate
increase, will mean that in the most remote parts of Australia, that the
Government is investing nearly $80 in the most common bulk billed session.

**JAMES:** Can I ask you another question about a Government election promise,
which was the setting up of these 50 Urgent Care Clinics across the country?
Where are things at with that? And what will they look like? Are we still
expecting to see at least 50 of them set up very soon?

**McBRIDE:** What I'm pleased to be able to say that there’ll now be 58
Medicare Urgent Care Clinics across Australia. We saw in the May Budget an
additional investment of $358.5 million towards Urgent Care Clinics. Some
Medicare Urgent Care Clinics will be open as soon as July with the rest
scheduled to open by the end of the year.

A Medicare Urgent Care Clinic will be a place where you can walk in without an
appointment, free of charge, and receive the care that you need. It's care
that's more acute than what your general practitioner can provide, but not as
urgent as what you would need to present to an emergency department for. So,
what it's intended to do is reduce pressure on general practitioners, and also
stop people clogging up our emergency departments and putting more strain on
our already stretched public health system.

**JAMES:** And who will run these? We have facility very much like you just
described at Bulli which a lot of locals refer to as the Bulli ED, it's not an
emergency department, if you have something very serious, you'll be sent to
Wollongong quick, smart, but it is for those things, as you said, and you walk
in off the street, it sounds very much like that model that's run by this
state's health department, and they constantly have trouble getting doctors to
staff it. So, I'm just wondering who would run this and who will be employed
by these health care centres.

**McBRIDE:** So, these Urgent Care Clinics will be run by existing general
practitioners. In New South Wales, a registration of interest process was
opened in April, and through the Primary Health Network, and the Department of
Health, those applications are being worked through at the moment. So, it'll
be an existing general practice that will run it. And we've been told from
those general practices that they're certain that they'll have the staff to be
able to run those practices, at those extended hours, providing that type of
care. And from what we've seen in other parts of Australia, and other parts of
the world, that this is a very successful model of care, to be able to reduce
pressure on other general practitioners, and to stop people turning up in
emergency departments. So, we're really pleased that with the interest of the
states and territories, we've now been able to expand the number of Medicare
Urgent Care Clinics, and very pleased to see some of them opening up in July.

**JAMES:** Do you know if there are any opening up in our region?

**McBRIDE:** There will be one I understand opening up in Wollongong. And I
understand that's on track, as are the other Urgent Care Clinics right around
New South Wales and across Australia.

**JAMES:** I have one final question. I know that you're planning on meeting
with a pretty well known local community organization, the Barstool Brothers
here in Wollongong. They're doing all sorts of amazing work in mental health.
And one of the things they want to do is promote not just the management of
hospitality workers' own mental health, but they want to develop a program
where hospitality workers can identify signs in others, maybe customers and
their colleagues, when they might be struggling with their mental health. I
know they're very keen to meet with you. You seem familiar with their work,
what do you know of what they do and what kind of support you might be able to
give them in the future?

**McBRIDE:** I was so pleased to be introduced to Barstool Brothers by the
local MP in Cunningham Alison Byrnes, who is a big supporter of the work they
do. I heard of the work that they were doing through COVID and was really
impressed by the benefits local people have seen so far, and their advocacy.
So very pleased to be visiting the Barstool Brothers today, might be able to
have one of their burgers. What I know is that some of the most effective
mental health and suicide prevention programs are local, where local people
have seen a need, in this case for hospitality workers and their patrons, and
have put forward a local solution to a widespread problem. So very keen for
the chance to meet with them again today.

**JAMES:** It will be very interesting to see what comes out of that
conversation. Thank you so much for joining us this morning and taking the
time to come in as well.

**McBRIDE:** It's a pleasure to be here.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

