Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Delivering Medicare Urgent Care Clinics in Victoria

The Albanese Government is delivering on its commitment to establish 10
Medicare Urgent Care Clinics (Medicare UCCs) in Victoria, making it easier for
Victorians to get urgent care when and where they need it.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Delivering Medicare Urgent Care Clinics in Victoria&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/delivering-medicare-urgent-care-clinics-in-victoria)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/delivering-medicare-urgent-care-clinics-in-victoria)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Delivering Medicare Urgent Care Clinics in Victoria&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/delivering-medicare-urgent-care-clinics-in-victoria)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

17 May 2023

Date published:

17 May 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The Albanese Government is delivering on its commitment to establish 10
Medicare Urgent Care Clinics (Medicare UCCs) in Victoria, making it easier for
Victorians to get urgent care when and where they need it.

Following consultation with the Victorian Government, the Commonwealth
Government will take over funding for 8 Priority Primary Care Centres (PPCCs)
in Victoria, including locations announced during the federal election
campaign, and make them Medicare UCCs – providing $47.1 million over 4 years.

Eight of these clinics are already operational in:

  * Ballarat 
  * Frankston 
  * Geelong 
  * Heidelberg 
  * Narre Warren 
  * Shepparton 
  * Werribee 
  * South Melbourne.

In addition to the 8 above, a new clinic will open in Sunbury in June and an
expression of interest (EOI) process will open on for a new clinic in inner
Melbourne through the PHN commencing the week of the 22nd of May.

The 8 operational clinics are already helping to reduce pressure on busy
emergency departments in Victoria

Patient survey data in Victoria shows that over 50% of patients would have
attended an emergency department if these clinics were not available.

The Medicare UCCs will be bulk billed services and open for extended hours, 7
days a week.

No appointment is required, care is provided by highly trained doctors and
nurses, and all patients needs is their Medicare card.

This joint initiative is an important step in strengthening Medicare and
ensuring that these clinics are funded to deliver timely and affordable
medical care for Victorians.

**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

“Medicare Urgent Care Clinics will allow families in Victoria to get top-
quality care from a nurse or a doctor without having to wait in a hospital
emergency department.

“Medicare UCCs are just one of the ways the Albanese Government is ensuring
every Australian gets the care they need, and deserve, in a timely and
affordable way.

“We’ve worked closely with the Victorian Government to ensure the Medicare
UCCs are integrated with the existing PPCCs and the needs of communities
across the state.”

**Quotes attributable to Minister Thomas:**

“Our PPCCs have already diverted thousands of Victorians from busy emergency
departments – making sure our doctors and nurses can care for the sickest
patients.

“We will continue to work with the Commonwealth Government, so these clinics
can continue to deliver Victorians the non-emergency care they need, when they
need it, close to home.”

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

