Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program)
  4. [Getting a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test)

[Getting a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-
program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test)

# How cervical screening works

The Cervical Screening Test is a simple test done every 5 years to check for
human papillomavirus (HPV) – a common infection. Discover what your options
are, what to expect at an appointment and what happens with your results.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=How cervical screening works&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-cervical-screening-works)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-cervical-screening-works)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=How cervical screening works&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-cervical-screening-works)

Loading...

On this page

Find out [where you can get a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-
cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-to-get-a-
cervical-screening-test "How to get a Cervical Screening Test"), who does them
and how to book.

## What the Cervical Screening Test is looking for

The Cervical Screening Test is a simple process look for signs of the human
papillomavirus (HPV) – a common infection that causes most cervical cancers.

Most cases of HPV clear up on their own, however, sometimes it can develop
into cancer.

Doing the Cervical Screening Test every 5 years means your healthcare provider
can monitor or investigate HPV further if needed.

## When booking your appointment

When booking an appointment, tell them if you:

  * would prefer a woman does the test
  * have a disability which means you need extra support to do the Cervical Screening Test
  * need the help of an interpreter during your appointment.

It’s also best to check if there are any costs when making your appointment.
There is a Medicare rebate for the Cervical Screening Test and the
consultation, but some healthcare providers charge a gap fee for the
consultation.

## At your appointment

You’ll be in a private space with your healthcare provider – usually a doctor,
nurse or healthcare worker.

If you’re unsure what to expect or are worried, you can talk about the process
and ask questions first.

You can take a family member or friend with you to your appointment to help
you feel more comfortable.

You can **choose** to screen by:

  * collecting your own vaginal sample (self-collection)
  * having your healthcare provider collect your sample.

Both options are equally **accurate and safe** ways to find HPV.

Talk to your healthcare provider about the right choice for you.

## Having your test

### If you choose to have your healthcare provider collect your sample

Usually, you need to take off your clothes below the waist. You lie on your
back, with your knees apart. You will be given a sheet to cover yourself. You
can ask for a sheet if you’re not given one.

The doctor or nurse will gently insert a speculum (a duck-bill-shaped device)
into your vagina, to hold it open. They will then take a small sample from
your cervix using a swab. It may feel strange but should not hurt. If it
hurts, tell your doctor or nurse straight away.

[ ![Diagram showing the location of the cervix at the top of the
vagina.](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/diagram_of_a_cervix.jpg?itok=9HiXjf4I)
](/sites/default/files/diagram_of_a_cervix.jpg)

Show description of image

This diagram shows that the cervix (the neck of the womb) is at the top of the
vagina. The area around the cervix is the transformation zone. Above the
cervix is the cervical canal, which connects the cervix to the uterus (womb).
Branching out from either side of the womb are the fallopian tubes and
ovaries.

### If you choose to collect your own sample (self-collection)

Talk to your doctor, nurse or health worker about this option. They will talk
to you about how to take the sample. You can then take the sample yourself in
private, or with help from your doctor, nurse or health worker.

Self-collection involves inserting a swab into your vagina and rotating it for
10 to 30 seconds. This should not hurt but may feel a bit uncomfortable.

Read the fact sheet and instructions and talk to your healthcare provider
about this option.

[ ![National Cervical Screening Program – Self-collection and the Cervical
Screening
Test](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2022/07/national-
cervical-screening-program-cervical-screening-in-australia.png?itok=NM5CqRgH)
](/resources/publications/national-cervical-screening-program-cervical-
screening-in-australia)

###  [National Cervical Screening Program – Cervical Screening in Australia
](/resources/publications/national-cervical-screening-program-cervical-
screening-in-australia?language=en)

This fact sheet helps healthcare providers to discuss whether self-collection
may be an option for participants in the National Cervical Screening Program.
It is usually provided during a consultation.  

[ ![National Cervical Screening Program – How to collect your own vaginal
sample for a Cervical Screening
Test](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2022/07/national-
cervical-screening-program-how-to-collect-your-own-vaginal-sample-for-a-
cervical-screening-test_0.png?itok=r6D1hXT2)
](/resources/publications/national-cervical-screening-program-how-to-collect-
your-own-vaginal-sample-for-a-cervical-screening-test)

###  [National Cervical Screening Program – How to collect your own vaginal
sample for a Cervical Screening Test ](/resources/publications/national-
cervical-screening-program-how-to-collect-your-own-vaginal-sample-for-a-
cervical-screening-test?language=en)

This fact sheet shows participants how to collect their own vaginal sample for
a Cervical Screening Test.

## After the appointment

The sample goes to a lab for checking and they send the results to either the
practice or health service:

  * where you had the test
  * that you nominate.

The lab also sends your results to the National Cancer Screening Register
(NCSR). The register holds your cancer screening records and is a good way to
keep track of your test dates and results. The NCSR will send you a letter
when you’re next due to screen.

![National Cancer Screening Register
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/national-
cancer-screening-register-contact.png?itok=u5Fh2Xk_)

###  [ National Cancer Screening Register contact ](/contacts/national-cancer-
screening-register-contact?language=en)

Contact the National Cancer Screening Register to update your contact details
or ask questions about the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program or National
Cervical Screening Program. You can call between 8 am and 6 pm Monday to
Friday, except national public holidays, from anywhere in Australia.

[1800 627 701](tel:1800 627 701)

[1800 627 702](tel:1800 627 702)

[Contact the National Cancer Screening
Register](https://ncsr.gov.au/content/ncsr/en/contact-us.html)

## Getting your results

Your healthcare provider will tell you your results when they come back.

For most people, the results will be that no HPV was found. Your healthcare
provider will advise you to do the Cervical Screening Test again in 5 years.

For self-collected samples where the results show a standard type of HPV was
found (all types except 16/18), your healthcare provider will ask you to
return. They will then collect a cervical sample for further testing to figure
out what to do next.

For clinician-collected samples where the results show a standard type of HPV
(all types except 16/18), your healthcare provider will advise you to do the
test again in one year to check whether the HPV is still there. If your HPV
has cleared up after one year, your healthcare provider will advise you to do
the test again in 5 years. If your HPV has not cleared up after one year, you
will be advised to do the test again in a further one year.

For a small group of people, the results will show a certain type of HPV
(types 16/18) that is more sensitive. If that’s the case, your healthcare
provider will refer you for further assessment.

Read more about [understanding your results](/resources/publications/national-
cervical-screening-program-a-guide-to-understanding-your-cervical-screening-
test-results "National Cervical Screening Program – A guide to understanding
your cervical screening test results").

Last updated:

1 July 2022

Tags:

  * [Sexual health](/topics/sexual-health)
  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-
screening-program)

  * [About the program](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/about-the-national-cervical-screening-program)
  * [Getting a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [Who should get a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/who-should-get-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [How to get a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-to-get-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [How cervical screening works](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-cervical-screening-works)
    * [Self-collection](/self-collection-for-the-cervical-screening-test)
    * [Understanding your results](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/understanding-your-cervical-screening-test-results)
  * [Providing cervical screening](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/providing-cervical-screening)
  * [News](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/national-cervical-screening-program-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/cervical-screening-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/cervical-screening-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

