Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Self-collection now available for cervical screening – Information for
healthcare providers

From 1 July 2022, the National Cervical Screening Program will allow all
eligible screeners to collect their own Cervical Screening Test sample.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Self-collection now available for cervical screening – Information for healthcare providers&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/self-collection-now-available-for-cervical-screening-information-for-healthcare-providers)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/self-collection-now-available-for-cervical-screening-information-for-healthcare-providers)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Self-collection now available for cervical screening – Information for healthcare providers&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/self-collection-now-available-for-cervical-screening-information-for-healthcare-providers)

Loading...

Date published:

1 July 2022

Type:

News

Audience:

Health sector

![National Cervical Screening Program –
Image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/images/news/2022/07/self-
collection-now-available-for-cervical-screening-information-for-healthcare-
providers.png?itok=_t7yxamJ)

New changes to the National Cervical Screening Program mean that all eligible
screeners – women and people with a cervix aged 25 to 74 – will be able to
choose to have a Cervical Screening Test either by:

  * taking your own sample from your vagina, using a simple swab (self-collection)
  * having a healthcare provider collect your sample from the cervix using a speculum.

Both options are:

  * free under Medicare – so if your healthcare provider bulk bills for consultations, the whole thing is free
  * accessed through a healthcare provider
  * accurate and safe ways to collect a sample for a Cervical Screening Test.

These changes mean that you/your practice/your members may start to see an
increase in the volume of requests from patients to use self-collection as an
option for their Cervical Screening Test.

Self-collection has the potential to reach under-screened patients, overcoming
barriers to cervical screening by providing a more culturally appropriate and
sensitive screening option. Self-collection is not appropriate for those who
require a co-test, for example because they are symptomatic or are undergoing
Test of Cure surveillance.

We have created a [healthcare provider
toolkit](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/ncsp-healthcare-
provider-toolkit) with useful resources to assist you in supporting your
patients.

The [National Cervical Screening Program: Guidelines for the management of
screen-detected abnormalities, screening in specific populations and
investigation of abnormal vaginal
bleeding](https://www.cancer.org.au/clinical-guidelines/cervical-cancer-
screening/?title=Guidelines:Cervical_cancer/Screening) have been updated to
support the expansion of self-collection and will come into effect on 1 July
2022.

Tags:

  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)
  * [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

