Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

[Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

# Rural health workforce initiatives and programs

A list of programs we fund that are relevant to the rural health workforce.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Rural health workforce initiatives and programs&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/programs)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/programs)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Rural health workforce initiatives and programs&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/programs)

Loading...

## Initiatives and programs

### [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program ](/our-
work/amds?language=en)

The Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program enables non-
vocationally recognised doctors to access Medicare benefits for providing
after-hours services on behalf of other doctors. This helps them get general
practice experience, while ensuring people can access health care after hours.

### [Approved Private Emergency Department (APED) Program ](/our-
work/aped?language=en)

Through the APED Program, advanced specialist trainees doing their emergency
medicine training can work under supervision in a private hospital for 12
months and access relevant Medicare items. This helps increase the number of
emergency medicine specialists in Australia.

### [Australian Rotary Health Rural Medical Scholarships ](/our-
work/australian-rotary-health-rural-medical-scholarships?language=en)

We contribute funding to these scholarships, which support medical students to
complete a year at a Rural Clinical School. The aim is to encourage students
to practice medicine in rural Australia.

### [Australian Rotary Health Rural Nursing Scholarships ](/our-
work/australian-rotary-health-rural-nursing-scholarships?language=en)

We contribute funding for these scholarships, which support nursing students
to complete their major clinical placement and graduating year in a rural or
remote area. The aim is to encourage students to pursue a nursing career in
rural Australia.

### [Bonded Medical Places Scheme ](/our-work/bonded-medical-places-
scheme?language=en)

The Bonded Medical Places Scheme has closed to new applicants. Existing
participants can either continue with this scheme or opt in to the more
flexible Bonded Medical Program.

### [Bonded Medical Program ](/our-work/bonded-medical-program?language=en)

The Bonded Medical Program helps address the shortage of medical professionals
in regional, rural and remote areas of Australia. It provides a Commonwealth
Supported Place in a medical course in exchange for participants working in
those areas after they graduate.

### [COAG Section 19(2) Exemptions Initiative – Improving Access to Primary
Care in Rural and Remote Areas ](/our-work/coag-section-192-exemptions-
initiative?language=en)

This initiative improves access to primary care in rural and remote areas. It
allows states and the Northern Territory to claim Medicare benefits for
primary health care services at approved health facilities or sites.

### [DoctorConnect ](/our-work/doctorconnect?language=en)

DoctorConnect provides information to international medical graduates and
their employers. It aims to help international medical graduates understand
the steps required to work as a doctor in Australia, where they can work and
restrictions on billing patients under Medicare.

### [Five Year International Medical Graduates Recruitment Scheme  ](/our-
work/five-year-international-medical-graduates-recruitment-scheme?language=en)

The Five Year International Medical Graduates Recruitment Scheme improves
access to doctors in rural and remote areas. It increases the supply of
doctors to work in these areas where their services are needed the most.

### [Flexible Approach to Training in Expanded Settings (FATES) ](/our-
work/fates?language=en)

The Flexible Approach to Training in Expanded Settings (FATES) funds new non-
general practitioner specialist medical training approaches. FATES aims to
broaden the skills of the specialist workforce, bring more specialists to
regional areas, and ensure all Australians can access high-quality care.

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC&page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Page 3 ](?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC&page=2 "Go to page 3")
  * [ Page 4 ](?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC&page=3 "Go to page 4")
  * [ Next page Next › ](?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC&page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC&page=3 "Go to last page")

[View all initiatives and programs](/resources?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC)

Last updated:

29 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

  * [About Australia's rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce/about)
  * [How we support](/topics/rural-health-workforce/how-we-support)
  * [Stronger Rural Health Strategy](/topics/rural-health-workforce/stronger-rural-health-strategy)
  * [Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/rural-health-workforce/programs)
  * [News](/topics/rural-health-workforce/rural-health-workforce-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/rural-health-workforce/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/rural-health-workforce/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

