Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Childhood Immunisation logo](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Childhood Immunisation

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/childhood-immunisation)
  * [Routine immunisation](/childhood-immunisation/routine-childhood-immunisation)
  * [Schedule](/childhood-immunisation/immunisation-schedule)
  * [Your questions answered](/childhood-immunisation/your-questions-answered)
  * [Getting vaccinated](/childhood-immunisation/getting-vaccinated)
  * [Resources](/childhood-immunisation/resources)
  * [Translated resources](/childhood-immunisation/translated-resources)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/childhood-immunisation)

[Childhood Immunisation]()

# Routine childhood immunisation

Childhood immunisation is a safe, free and effective way to protect your kids
form serious diseases. On time vaccination will give your child the best
protection.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Routine childhood immunisation&url=https://www.health.gov.au/childhood-immunisation/routine-childhood-immunisation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/childhood-immunisation/routine-childhood-immunisation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Routine childhood immunisation&body=https://www.health.gov.au/childhood-immunisation/routine-childhood-immunisation)

Loading...

On this page

![Childhood immunisation schedule
icon](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-03/nip_schedule_children_0_2.png?itok=wfeAWvBu)

## Childhood immunisation schedule

The Childhood Immunisation Schedule outlines the recommended vaccines for your
child from birth to age 4. These are available free to children under the
National Immunisation Program.

This helps to protect them from the most serious childhood infections, some of
which may threaten their lives.

There are extra vaccines recommended for some children who are more at risk.
You should talk to your health professional to see if they recommend your
child get these vaccines.

Children with certain medical conditions are eligible for additional vaccines
for free such as pneumococcal and meningococcal. Speak to your vaccination
provider to see if your child requires additional vaccines.

[See the schedule for vaccines recommended for your child](/childhood-
immunisation/immunisation-schedule "Childhood immunisation schedule")

## Vaccinate on time

It is important to vaccinate on time to give your child the best protection
against harmful diseases. Follow the Childhood Immunisation Schedule and set a
reminder to book your child’s next appointment.

Being just a few weeks late puts your child and those around them at risk of
contracting serious disease. ‘On time’ means on (or as close as possible to)
the due date in the schedule.

## **Who can get free vaccines**

These vaccines are free under the National Immunisation Program for children
who are on a [Medicare
Card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-enrol-and-
get-started-medicare/enrolling-medicare#whocan) or are eligible to be on one.

All immunisations linked to [family assistance
payments](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisations-for-
access-to-family-assistance-benefits-and-early-childhood-services
"Immunisations for access to family assistance benefits and early childhood
services") are free.

While the routine vaccines are free, your vaccination provider **may charge a
consultation fee for the visit.** Check if there are any fees when making your
appointment.

### **Free catch-up vaccinations**

If your child is overdue or has missed a scheduled vaccination, talk to your
vaccination provider about catching up. A range of catch-up childhood vaccines
are available for free up until age 20.

### Family assistance payments

To receive some [family assistance payments](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-
vaccinated/immunisations-for-access-to-family-assistance-benefits-and-early-
childhood-services "Immunisations for access to family assistance benefits and
early childhood services") such as Family Tax Benefit (Part A) and Child Care
Subsidies, your child must:

  * be up-to-date with [certain vaccinations](http://guides.dss.gov.au/family-assistance-guide/2/1/3/30)
  * be on an approved catch-up schedule
  * have an approved exception.

## Vaccines are safe

All vaccines available in Australia go through a rigorous testing process,
ensuring they are safe and effective before approval.

There is also an independent process for the listing of vaccines listings on
the National Immunisation Program.

Once in use, vaccine monitoring continues for safety. Reports on adverse
events or reactions are collected and investigated if there is a suspected
problem.

Find out more about vaccine safety, monitoring and ingredients:

  * [Vaccine safety](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation/vaccine-safety "Vaccine safety")
  * [How do I know the vaccines are safe? Sharing Knowledge about Immunisation](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/How-do-I-know-the-vaccines-are-safe)

[ ![Childhood vaccinations consumer brochure cover
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2023-03/childhood-
vaccinations-consumer-brochure-dl-version.png?itok=RH-CCMiu) ](/childhood-
immunisation/resources/publications/childhood-vaccinations-consumer-brochure-
dl-version)

###  [Childhood vaccinations consumer brochure – DL version ](/childhood-
immunisation/resources/publications/childhood-vaccinations-consumer-brochure-
dl-version?language=en)

This brochure provides information about the recommended vaccines available
free for children under the National Immunisation Program.

###  [ Find out about getting vaccinated ](/childhood-immunisation/getting-
vaccinated)

###  [ Get answers to common questions ](/childhood-immunisation/your-
questions-answered)

Last updated:

31 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [National Immunisation Program](/our-work/national-immunisation-program)

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

