Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# 2020–25 National Health Reform Agreement (NHRA)

Signed by all Australian governments, the 2020–25 Addendum to National Health
Reform Agreement (NHRA) aims to improve health outcomes for all Australians
and ensure our health system is sustainable.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=2020–25 National Health Reform Agreement \(NHRA\)&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/2020-25-national-health-reform-agreement-nhra)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/2020-25-national-health-reform-agreement-nhra)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=2020–25 National Health Reform Agreement \(NHRA\)&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/2020-25-national-health-reform-agreement-nhra)

Loading...

On this page

## About the NHRA

The Prime Minister [announced ](//www.pm.gov.au/media/commonwealth-and-states-
sign-131-billion-five-year-hospitals-agreement)the new [2020–25 National
Health Reform Agreement
(NHRA)](https://federalfinancialrelations.gov.au/sites/federalfinancialrelations.gov.au/files/2021-07/NHRA_2020-25_Addendum_consolidated.pdf)
on 29 May 2020, following sign-on by all Australian governments.

The NHRA is an agreement between the Australian Government and all state and
territory governments.

It commits to improving health outcomes for Australians, by providing better
coordinated and joined up care in the community, and ensuring the future
sustainability of Australia’s health system. It is the key mechanism for the
transparency, governance and financing of Australia’s public hospital system.

Through this agreement, the Australian Government contributes funds to the
states and territories for public hospital services. This includes services
delivered through emergency departments, hospitals and community health
settings.

All levels of government share responsibility for health services in
Australia. The NHRA includes a commitment to a shared long-term vision for
health reform and outlines how governments will work together to provide high-
quality services.

The NHRA recognises the states and territories as system managers of public
hospitals. As such, the states and territories are responsible for:

  * determining the mix of the services and functions delivered in their jurisdiction
  * system-wide public hospital service planning and performance.

The Australian Government will contribute about $133.6 billion between 1 July
2020 and 30 June 2025 for public hospital services.

## Goals of the NHRA

The goals of the NHRA are to:

  * deliver safe, high-quality care in the right place at the right time
  * prioritise prevention, and help people manage their health across their lifetime
  * drive best-practice and performance using data and research
  * improve efficiency and ensure financial sustainability.

## What’s new in the 2020–25 NHRA

The NHRA will continue to provide increased funding for public hospitals, and
sets a new pathway for long-term reform of our health system. It introduces 6
long-term health reforms, and opportunities for states to trial new funding
models and models of care.

The NHRA also supports delivery of new lifesaving high-cost therapies. This
will provide improved access to treatment for patients with rare conditions
who often have few options remaining.

The NHRA reaffirms all governments’ commitment to the Medicare principles,
which underpin public hospital services. These principles ensure equitable
access to public hospital services for all eligible persons that are free of
charge as public patients, based on their clinical need and regardless of
their geographic location. They also give patients’ freedom to choose whether
they are treated as a public or private patient, in a public hospital.

## Australia’s long-term health reforms

All Australian governments have agreed to progress long-term system-wide
health reforms under the NHRA.

The long-term reforms will examine how well the different components of the
health system interact. Governments will work with the health sector to better
understand and remove systemic barriers to improving health care.

The reforms will give local health services the flexibility to try new
solutions to address these barriers and improve service delivery. This will
ensure health services best suit the needs of their local community.

The 6 reforms outlined in [Schedule C of the
NHRA](https://federalfinancialrelations.gov.au/sites/federalfinancialrelations.gov.au/files/2021-07/NHRA_2020-25_Addendum_consolidated.pdf)
are:

  * empowering people through health literacy – person-centred health information and support will empower people to manage their own health well and engage effectively with health services
  * prevention and wellbeing – to reduce the burden of long-term chronic conditions and improve people’s quality of life
  * paying for value and outcomes – enabling new and flexible ways for governments to pay for health services
  * joint planning and funding at a local level – improving the way health services are planned and delivered at the local level
  * enhanced health data – integrating data to support better health outcomes and save lives
  * nationally cohesive health technology assessment – improving health technology decisions will deliver safe, effective and affordable care.

The [National Health Reform Agreement Long Term Reforms
Roadmap](/resources/publications/national-health-reform-agreement-nhra-long-
term-health-reforms-roadmap "National Health Reform Agreement \(NHRA\) – Long-
term health reforms roadmap") was endorsed by all Australian Health Ministers
at the Health Ministers’ Meeting on 17 September 2021.

## Why we need reform

The long-term health reforms under the NHRA will support better coordinated
care in the community, focus on prevention and keeping people healthier
longer, and reduce pressure on hospitals. These systemic reforms will also
help improve the experiences of people using services across the health, aged
care, disability and mental health sectors.

Overall, the long-term reforms will make it easier for people to manage their
health. They will also make it easier for state and territory health services
to give Australians the care they need and want, and reduce pressure on
hospitals.

## Who works with us

The key national and regional organisations who support governments to deliver
health services include:

  * [Independent Hospital Pricing Authority](https://www.ihpa.gov.au/)
  * [National Health Funding Body](https://www.publichospitalfunding.gov.au/)
  * [Australian Institute of Health and Welfare](https://www.aihw.gov.au/)
  * [Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/)
  * [Primary Health Networks](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/PHN-Home)
  * Local Hospital Networks.

Private and community organisations also partner with governments to help
deliver health services to the community.

## Status

The NHRA took effect on 1 July 2020 and is operational until 30 June 2025.

Last updated:

9 February 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  * [Hospital care](/topics/hospital-care)
  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

