Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

[Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

# Stronger Rural Health Strategy

The Stronger Rural Health Strategy is a 10-year strategy from 2018–19 to
improve the health of people in Australia through the supply of a quality
health workforce that is distributed across the country according to community
need. It will deliver 3,000 extra doctors and 3,000 extra nurses by 2028.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Stronger Rural Health Strategy&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/stronger-rural-health-strategy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/stronger-rural-health-strategy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Stronger Rural Health Strategy&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/stronger-rural-health-strategy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)

Loading...

On this page

## **About the strategy**

The Stronger Rural Health Strategy (SRHS) aims to build a sustainable, high-
quality health workforce that is distributed across the country according to
community need. It focuses on rural and remote communities and other areas
that have difficulty attracting doctors, nurses and other allied health
professionals.

The SRHS includes a range of incentives, targeted funding and bonding
arrangements that give doctors more opportunities to train and practice in
rural Australia. It also strengthens the role of nurses and allied health
professionals to deliver more multidisciplinary, team-based models of primary
health care.

The SRHS consists of many initiatives organised under 3 themes:

  * teach
  * train
  * recruit and retain.

## **Teach**

### **The Murray–Darling Medical Schools Network**

Five rural medical school programs were established in the Murray–Darling
region to form the [Murray–Darling Medical Schools Network](/our-work/murray-
darling-medical-schools-network "Murray–Darling Medical Schools Network ").
This means medical students can stay in their communities while they study.

Expansion of the [Rural Health Multidisciplinary Training program](/our-
work/rhmt "Rural Health Multidisciplinary Training \(RHMT\) program  ")
delivers more rural placements for health students.

## **Train**

### **Training support for junior doctors**

The [Junior Doctor Training Program](/our-work/junior-doctor-training-program
"Junior Doctor Training Program") funds:

  * educational support for junior doctors working and training in rural primary care settings
  * salary support for junior doctors working in private hospitals.

The [National Rural Health Commissioner](/our-work/onrhc "Office of the
National Rural Health Commissioner") has worked with the rural health sector
and the GP colleges to develop a [National Rural Generalist Pathway](/our-
work/national-rural-generalist-pathway "National Rural Generalist Pathway").
The pathway recognises the extra requirements and skills of rural generalists
and supports them to meet the diverse health needs of regional, rural and
remote Australians.

### **Improved access to Australian-trained GPs**

#### **Medicare measures**

This initiative introduced a new [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) fee
structure](/node/27995#medicare-access-for-doctors-and-specialists) on 1 July
2018. The new structure identified non–vocationally recognised (non-VR)
doctors as a distinct group when claiming MBS GP items. Non-VR doctors can
bill at 80% of what VR doctors can bill. It also increased the base rate for
standard consultations for non-VR doctors by 20% in regional, rural and remote
areas.

These changes reward investment in postgraduate specialist qualifications and
encourage more doctors to work in regional, rural and remote areas.

The [Non-vocationally Registered Fellowship Support Program](/our-work/non-VR-
FSP "Non-vocationally Registered Fellowship Support Program \(Non-VR FSP\)")
(Non-VR FSP) supports non-VR doctors while they gain fellowship of a GP
college to become vocationally recognised. This program will end on 30 June
2023.

#### **More Doctors for Rural Australia**

The [More Doctors for Rural Australia Program](/our-work/more-doctors-for-
rural-australia-program "More Doctors for Rural Australia Program") helps
doctors who are temporary or permanent residents of Australia and not
vocationally recognised to gain fellowship of an Australian GP college.

### **Streamlining general practice training**

This initiative [streamlines general practice training pathways](/our-
work/streamlining-general-practice-training "Streamlining General Practice
Training ") and helps doctors to gain fellowship of one of Australia’s 2 GP
colleges. It distributes training places to ensure a continued supply of
skilled doctors in rural and remote areas.

**Support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health professional
organisations**

We provide [support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health
professional organisations](/our-work/atsihpo-support "Support for Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander health professional organisations") (ATSIHPOs).
These organisations play a key role in increasing:

  * the number of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in the health workforce
  * the cultural competency of the broader health workforce.

## **Recruit and retain**

### **HeaDS UPP health workforce planning tool**

The Health Demand and Supply Utilisation Patterns Planning tool ([HeaDS
UPP](https://hwd.health.gov.au/headsupp/)) brings health data together to
visually highlight how the community uses health services. This data
determines areas of need and informs our workforce planning and analysis.

### **Bonded Medical Program**

Our [Bonded Medical
Program](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/reformed-
bonded-programs) replaces 2 schemes, which are now closed to new applicants –
the Bonded Medical Places Scheme and the Medical Rural Bonded Scholarship
Scheme.

The new program provides more support and flexibility for participants to
fulfil their return of service obligation. Program participants have access to
more choice, more locations, better support and streamlined conditions.

### **Workforce Incentive Program**

The [Workforce Incentive Program](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program
"Workforce Incentive Program") has 2 streams. The [Doctor Stream](/our-
work/workforce-incentive-program/doctor-stream "Workforce Incentive Program
Doctor Stream") provides incentives for doctors to work in rural locations.
The [Practice Stream](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream
"Workforce Incentive Program Practice Stream") supports general practices to
employ nurses, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health professionals, and
allied health professionals, including non-dispensing pharmacists.

### **Strengthening the role of the nursing workforce**

The [Strengthening the Role of the Nursing Workforce](/our-work/strengthening-
the-role-of-the-nursing-workforce "Strengthening the role of the nursing
workforce") initiative includes several components:

  * strengthening the role of nurses in delivering primary health care and in meeting the future health care needs of the Australian community
  * raising awareness of the role of [nurse practitioners](/node/20172#types-of-nurse-in-australia)
  * reviewing undergraduate preparation for nurses in Australia to explore improvements to the system and factors affecting nurses entering the workforce.

The Educating the Nurse of the Future initiative undertook an [independent
review](/resources/collections/educating-the-nurse-of-the-future-reports-and-
literature-reviews "Educating the Nurse of the Future reports and literature
reviews") of nursing education. It aimed to ensure that their training equips
nurses to meet the needs of Australia's future health system.

### **Royal Flying Doctor Service support**

The SRHS provides [extra funding to the Royal Flying Doctor Service](/our-
work/rfds "Royal Flying Doctor Service program ") to deliver mental health
services, along with dental and emergency aeromedical services, to rural and
remote communities.

### **Improved targeting of bulk billing incentives**

We changed [rural bulk billing incentives](/our-work/rural-bulk-billing-
incentives "Rural Bulk Billing Incentives  ") for doctors working in rural
areas. Metropolitan areas no longer have access to incentives intended for
rural and remote areas. We pay higher benefits to regional, rural and remote
doctors to bulk bill children and people with a concession card.

### **Visas for GPs**

The [Visas for GPs](/our-work/visas-for-gps-program "Visas for GPs Program")
program manages the growth of the medical workforce by:

  * regulating the number of international medical graduates entering Australia
  * directing them to work in primary health care areas of need in rural and remote locations.

Last updated:

14 December 2021

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

  * [About Australia's rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce/about)
  * [How we support](/topics/rural-health-workforce/how-we-support)
  * [Stronger Rural Health Strategy](/topics/rural-health-workforce/stronger-rural-health-strategy)
  * [Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/rural-health-workforce/programs)
  * [News](/topics/rural-health-workforce/rural-health-workforce-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/rural-health-workforce/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/rural-health-workforce/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

