Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

[Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

# Life Saving Drugs Program for patients

Patients with certain ultra-rare diseases can access fully subsidised life-
saving medicines under the Life Saving Drugs Program (LSDP). Find out how to
get medicines through the program and what your responsibilities are.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Life Saving Drugs Program for patients&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-patients)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-patients)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Life Saving Drugs Program for patients&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-patients)

Loading...

On this page

## Accessing medicine through the LSDP

[If you are eligible](/node/15395#patient-eligibility-criteria), you can get
[certain medicines](/node/15395#lsdp-medicines) subsidised under the LSDP.

Your treating physician will fill in the LSDP application form and submit it
to the LSDP.

Your treating physician must provide copies of all required test results and a
clinic letter as evidence of your condition. These must be less than 12 months
old.

View the application forms and other relevant documents for your condition:

  * [Gaucher disease (type 1)](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-gaucher-disease "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Gaucher disease")
  * [Fabry disease](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-fabry-disease "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Fabry disease ")
  * [Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I)](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-mucopolysaccharidosis-type-i-mps-i "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Mucopolysaccharidosis type I \(MPS I\)")
  * [Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II)](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-mucopolysaccharidosis-type-ii-mps-ii "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Mucopolysaccharidosis type II \(MPS II\)")
  * [Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA (MPSIVA)](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-mucopolysaccharidosis-type-iva-mps-iva "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA \(MPS IVA\)")
  * [Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI (MPS VI)](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-mucopolysaccharidosis-type-vi-mps-vi "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI \(MPS VI\)")
  * [Pompe disease](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-pompe-disease "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Pompe disease") (infantile-onset and late-onset)
  * [Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT1)](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-hereditary-tyrosinaemia-type-1 "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1")
  * [Late-infantile onset Batten disease (CLN2)](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-batten-disease "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Late-Infantile onset batten disease \(CLN2 disease\)")
  * [Perinatal- and infantile-onset hypophosphatasia (HPP)](/resources/collections/life-saving-drugs-program-resources-perinatal-and-infantile-onset-hypophosphatasia-hpp "Life Saving Drugs Program resources – Perinatal- and infantile-onset hypophosphatasia \(HPP\)")
  * [Infantile-onset lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D)](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources#resources-by-condition "Life Saving Drugs Program resources")

## Approval process

After your treating physician submits your application, we will:

  * check the application is complete
  * assess your eligibility
  * notify your treating physician of our decision within 30 days.

We process most applications within 7 days.

If we approve your application, your treating physician must reapply for you
**every year**. This ensures you can continue to receive LSDP-subsidised
treatment.

For more details about the application process, see [LSDP for treating
physicians](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-treating-physicians "Life
Saving Drugs Program for treating physicians").

## How your medicine gets to you

Once we approve your application, we will order your medicine from the
supplier. They will ship your medicine to a hospital pharmacy, or other
pharmacy of your choice, to dispense to you.

Due to the high cost of LSDP medicines, we only order one month’s supply of
medicine at a time.

Other people can pick up your LSDP medicines.

If you are receiving your LSDP medicine through an infusion at a hospital,
suppliers can send LSDP medicine directly to the hospital, just before you
attend (as per hospital procedure).

## Costs

The Australian Government provides LSDP medicines at no cost to the patient.
LSDP medicines are not part of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS), so
PBS patient co-payments do not apply.

Your pharmacy might charge you a fee for cold transport and handling of your
medicines as required. They must tell you about this cost up front and you
must agree to it before the pharmacy dispenses the LSDP medicines. They cannot
charge you any other co-payment or fee.

## Annual reapplication process

Treating physicians must review patients receiving LSDP medicines every year.
This ensures LSDP patients are:

  * still eligible for the program
  * taking the medicine as prescribed
  * responding to the medicine in the expected way.

Each disease has different tests that should be done each year. You can find
the required tests in the [LSDP patient test results spreadsheet](/our-
work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources#resources-by-condition "Life Saving
Drugs Program resources") for each condition.

Your treating physician must submit to us:

  * test results
  * a signed reapplication form showing you are still eligible to receive the subsidised medicine

  * a clinic letter less than 12 months old outlining your recent medical and surgical history and general description of your health status

  * the completed patient test results spreadsheet.

If you have any concerns about why certain tests are needed, or how often,
discuss this with your treating physician.

## Your obligations

To stay eligible for subsidised medicines through the LSDP, you must:

  * continue to regularly see your treating physician regularly during your treatment
  * take your medicines as prescribed by your treating physician
  * tell your treating physician immediately if you start to experience any adverse effects while using your LSDP medicine
  * have any required tests for reapplication each year
  * sign your consent on the reapplication form each year
  * if applicable, store your LSDP medicine according to the instructions on the labelling or leaflet accompanying the medicine
  * tell your treating general practitioner and/or treating physician if you believe your medicine may be compromised in any way
  * continue to qualify for Medicare (be an Australian citizen or permanent resident).

## Resources

Read our [printable fact sheet for patients](/resources/publications/life-
saving-drugs-program-fact-sheet-for-patients "Life Saving Drugs Program – Fact
sheet for patients").

See [LSDP resources](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources "Life
Saving Drugs Program resources") for more guidelines, forms and fact sheets
about the program.

[ ![Life Saving Drugs Program – Fact sheet for
patients](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2023-04/life-
saving-drugs-program-fact-sheet-for-patients.png?itok=_o2TLfpT)
](/resources/publications/life-saving-drugs-program-fact-sheet-for-patients)

###  [Life Saving Drugs Program – Fact sheet for patients
](/resources/publications/life-saving-drugs-program-fact-sheet-for-
patients?language=en)

Health professionals can print this fact sheet and give it to patients who are
starting treatment under the Life Saving Drugs Program.

Last updated:

1 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)
  * [Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

  * [About the Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/about-the-lsdp)
  * [For patients](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-patients)
  * [For treating physicians](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-treating-physicians)
  * [For pharmacists](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-pharmacists)
  * [For medicine sponsors](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-medicine-sponsors)
  * [Resources](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

