Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Eliminating HIV transmission and ensuring health equity for LGBTIQA+
Australians

The Australian Government is delivering on its commitment to eliminate HIV
transmission in Australia, and address the health disparities experienced by
LGBTIQA+ people.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Eliminating HIV transmission and ensuring health equity for LGBTIQA+ Australians&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/eliminating-hiv-transmission-and-ensuring-health-equity-for-lgbtiqa-australians)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/eliminating-hiv-transmission-and-ensuring-health-equity-for-lgbtiqa-australians)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Eliminating HIV transmission and ensuring health equity for LGBTIQA+ Australians&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/eliminating-hiv-transmission-and-ensuring-health-equity-for-lgbtiqa-australians)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

3 May 2023

Date published:

3 May 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The Australian Government is delivering on its commitment to eliminate HIV
transmission in Australia, and address the health disparities experienced by
LGBTIQA+ people.

An additional $19.7 million in the 2023–24 Budget will ensure better access to
HIV testing, treatment and information, including support for the HIV
workforce and to continue to address other Blood Borne Virus (BBV) and
Sexually Transmissible Infections (STI).

The Government will:

  * expand access to HIV treatment for people who are ineligible for Medicare to ensure no one is left behind
  * extend the HIV testing vending machine pilot to increase access to HIV testing for students in South Australia
  * fund the Emen8 website, a critical information hub for sharing HIV information for members of the LGBTIQA+ community
  * fund the HIV Online Learning Australia program to provide up-to-date education and training for the HIV workforce
  * provide additional support for BBV and STI peaks ($2.9 million) including for the Australian Federation of AIDS Organisations (AFAO) and National Association of People with HIV in Australia (NAPWHA) to drive the national response
  * provide funding to Aboriginal Community Controlled Organisations for BBV and STI testing, treatment and care services for First Nations Australians ($5.0 million).

This investment continues the implementation of the Eighth National HIV
Strategy (2018–2022), and provides a platform for the important work of the
HIV Taskforce, announced by the Government in December 2022, encompassing the
development of the Ninth National HIV Strategy. It will bring Australia closer
to its goal of ending HIV transmission by 2030.

The Government is also developing the 10 Year National Action Plan for the
Health and Wellbeing of LGBTIQA+ people and will establish an LGBTIQA+ Health
Advisory Group to break down barriers to accessing health care.

The action plan will be developed in consultation with the LGBTIQA+ community
and will help address the inequity faced by too many.

This announcement comes as Minister Butler and Assistant Minister Kearney co-
chair the inaugural HIV Taskforce meeting in Sydney.

**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

“Australia can be very proud of our efforts to reduce the incidence of HIV in
this country, but there is more that can be done and we have a real
opportunity to stamp out this virus altogether.

“Thanks to the incredible work of groups like AFAO and NAPWHA, and the broader
community, Australia has some of the lowest HIV infection rates in the world
and we need to continue to work together to drive that down to zero.

“In addition to being overrepresented in HIV statistics, LGBTIQA+ Australians
continue to face bias and discrimination in the health system – an
unacceptable situation in Australia in 2023.”

**Quotes attributable to Assistant Minister Kearney:**

“The Government recognises that there are unacceptable disparities in health
outcomes and significant barriers to getting the health care LGBTIQA+ people
deserve and we are determined to address this inequity.  
  
“I’m proud of how far we’ve come and I’m even prouder to stand beside so many
fierce advocates in the LBGTIQA+ community that have fought to get Australia
where we are today – but the fight is not over.

“The 10 Year National Action Plan for the Health and Wellbeing of LGBTIQA+
people will guide the reforms needed to ensure LGBTIQA+ Australians are given
every chance to live healthier lives.”

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

