Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  4. [Getting your COVID-19 vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)

[Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination)

# COVID-19 vaccination if you don't have a Medicare card

COVID-19 vaccination is free for everyone in Australia, even if you don't have
a Medicare card. Learn more about how to book a vaccination.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=COVID-19 vaccination if you don't have a Medicare card&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=COVID-19 vaccination if you don't have a Medicare card&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card)

Loading...

On this page

## Vaccines are free for everyone

Your Medicare or visa status does not matter – you can still get a free
COVID-19 vaccination. We encourage everyone to get vaccinated to help protect
the community from COVID-19.

The [ATAGI recommended doses and
vaccines](https://health.govcms.gov.au/resources/publications/atagi-
recommended-covid-19-doses-and-vaccines) outlines which vaccines and doses are
recommended for each age and population group.

## Where you can get vaccinated without a Medicare card

There are many places where you can get your free vaccination. Use the health
[Service Finder](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services)
to find the best place for you.

[Find a clinic and book](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-
services)

If you are not eligible for Medicare, general practice providers can still
supply COVID-19 vaccines to you, but cannot bill you for this service
(Medicare or otherwise). Your GP may ask you to get your vaccination at a
state-run or territory-run vaccination clinic, or a pharmacy.

## Helpline

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ National Coronavirus Helpline ](/contacts/national-coronavirus-
helpline?language=en)

For information about COVID-19 and vaccines call 1800 020 080. This line
operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with additional options for priority
groups.

[1800 020 080](tel:1800 020 080)

[COVID-19 vaccine enquiries](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-
us/covid-19-vaccine-enquiries-0)

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-default-icon.png)

###  [ Translating and Interpreting Service (TIS) National
](/contacts/translating-and-interpreting-service-tis-national?language=en)

TIS National is for people who do not speak English and for agencies and
businesses that need to communicate with their non-English speaking clients.

[131 450](tel:131 450)

[Translating and Interpreting Service (TIS
National)](https://www.tisnational.gov.au/)

Last updated:

30 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
    * [Where you can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/locations)
    * [If you don't have a Medicare card](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card)
    * [Before your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/before)
    * [After your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/after)
    * [Booster doses](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)
    * [If you’ve already had COVID-19](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/vaccination-after-covid-19-infection)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

