Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program

The Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program enables non-
vocationally recognised doctors to access Medicare benefits for providing
after-hours services on behalf of other doctors. This helps them get general
practice experience, while ensuring people can access health care after hours.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Approved Medical Deputising Services \(AMDS\) program&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/amds)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/amds)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Approved Medical Deputising Services \(AMDS\) program&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/amds)

Loading...

###  [ About the program ](/our-work/amds/about)

Find out what the program is and why it's important.

###  [ For doctors ](/our-work/amds/for-doctors)

Read about eligibility requirements and how doctors can apply.

###  [ For services ](/our-work/amds/for-services)

Read about eligibility requirements and how services can apply.

###  [ Compliance and tip-off ](/our-work/amds/guidelines-compliance)

See the responsibilities of doctors and services, and how to report a breach.

![Cover image for AMDS
guidelines](/sites/default/files/styles/h_featured_max_width/public/images/publications/2021/09/approved-
medical-deputising-services-amds-program-guidelines.png?itok=8GxpGlnf)

## Program guidelines

These guidelines provide information about how the Approved Medical Deputising
Services program works, including procedures, responsibilities, eligibility
and application processes.

[View the guidelines](/resources/publications/approved-medical-deputising-
services-amds-program-guidelines)

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![Cover image for AMDS
guidelines](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2021/09/approved-medical-
deputising-services-amds-program-guidelines.png)

### [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program guidelines
](/resources/publications/approved-medical-deputising-services-amds-program-
guidelines?language=en)

August 2021

Guideline

These guidelines provide information about how the Approved Medical Deputising
Services program works, including procedures, responsibilities, eligibility
and application processes.

![Cover image for Approved Medical Deputising Services \(AMDS\) – Declaration
of exceptional
circumstances](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/08/approved-
medical-deputising-services-amds-declaration-of-exceptional-circumstances.png)

### [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) – Declaration of exceptional
circumstances ](/resources/publications/approved-medical-deputising-services-
amds-declaration-of-exceptional-circumstances?language=en)

August 2021

Form

Doctors should complete this form to describe the exceptional circumstances
that have prevented them to progress towards their fellowship qualification.

![Cover image for Approved Medical Deputising Services \(AMDS\) – Summary of
changes to
guidelines](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/08/approved-medical-
deputising-services-amds-summary-of-changes-to-guidelines.png)

### [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) – Summary of changes to
guidelines ](/resources/publications/approved-medical-deputising-services-
amds-summary-of-changes-to-guidelines?language=en)

August 2021

Fact sheet

This document outlines what changes we made to the AMDS guidelines in August
2021, as well as the reasons for those changes.

![Cover image for Approved Medical Deputising Services \(AMDS\) – Application
form for service
providers](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/08/approved-medical-
deputising-services-amds-application-form-for-service-providers.png)

### [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) – Application form for
service providers ](/resources/publications/approved-medical-deputising-
services-amds-application-form-for-service-providers?language=en)

August 2021

Form

Medical deputising services should use this form to join or renew
participation in the Approved Medical Deputising Services Program.

[View more resources](/our-
work/amds/resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

Last updated:

1 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

