Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

[Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

# Managing chronic conditions

You can take an active role in managing your chronic condition. Reducing risk
factors can help prevent some conditions. You can work with your GP and
specialist to manage your condition and improve your quality of life.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Managing chronic conditions&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/managing-chronic-conditions)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/managing-chronic-conditions)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Managing chronic conditions&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/managing-chronic-conditions)

Loading...

On this page

## Preventing chronic conditions

Some chronic conditions are not preventable because they are genetic or the
cause is unknown. Examples include type 1 diabetes, multiple sclerosis,
rheumatoid arthritis and cystic fibrosis.

Other chronic conditions can sometimes develop due to risk factors that people
can control. Examples include type 2 diabetes, kidney disease, some lung
diseases and stroke.

Things you can do to reduce the risk of developing a preventable chronic
condition include:

  * [quitting smoking ](/topics/smoking-and-tobacco/how-to-quit-smoking "How to quit smoking")
  * [getting enough physical activity](/topics/physical-activity-and-exercise "Physical activity and exercise")
  * [reducing your alcohol intake](/topics/alcohol/about-alcohol/how-can-you-reduce-or-quit-alcohol "How can you reduce or quit alcohol?")
  * [eating well](/topics/food-and-nutrition "Food and nutrition")
  * [maintaining a healthy weight ](/topics/overweight-and-obesity "Overweight and obesity")
  * [maintaining healthy blood pressure](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/how-to-lower-blood-pressure)
  * [having good cholesterol levels](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/how-to-lower-cholesterol).

## Population-based health screening

Cancer is another type of chronic condition. You can either prevent cancer or,
if found early, reduce illness and the chances of death by participating in
our screening programs:

  * [BreastScreen Australia Program](http://www.cancerscreening.gov.au/internet/screening/publishing.nsf/Content/breast-screening-1)
  * [National Cervical Screening Program](http://www.cancerscreening.gov.au/internet/screening/publishing.nsf/Content/cervical-screening-1)
  * [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program "National Bowel Cancer Screening Program")
  * [National Indigenous Bowel Screening Pilot](/our-work/national-indigenous-bowel-screening-pilot "National Indigenous Bowel Screening Pilot").

Other population-based screening programs identify chronic conditions in
newborns. Babies can then get early treatment, leading to better quality of
life.

  * [Newborn Bloodspot Screening](/topics/pregnancy-birth-and-baby/newborn-bloodspot-screening "Newborn bloodspot screening")
  * [Newborn Hearing Screening](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/neonatal-hearing-screening).

## Diagnosing chronic conditions

Chronic conditions can be complex. Diagnosing them can be complex as well.

Your doctor can help you if you have some problems or symptoms that worry you.
Your doctor can order some [diagnostic
tests](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/diagnostic-tests) to see if they can
work out what is wrong. Tests might include:

  * [blood tests](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/blood-testing)
  * [X-rays](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/x-rays)
  * [CT](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/ct-scan) or [MRI](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/magnetic-resonance-imaging-mri) scans, or [ultrasounds](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/ultrasound).

Your doctor might refer you to a specialist if they:

  * can’t diagnose your problem
  * have diagnosed a condition, but think you need more help.

The type of specialist you need to see will depend on your symptoms and
diagnosis.

For more information about diagnosing specific chronic conditions, search for
the condition on [healthdirect](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/health-
topics/conditions).

## Treating and managing chronic conditions

People living with a chronic condition will need to manage it long term,
perhaps for the rest of their lives. You can take an active role in managing
your condition.

Treating the symptoms of your chronic condition can improve your quality of
life.

If you have a chronic condition, you can manage it by:

  * making regular visits to your general practitioner or specialist
  * having a healthy lifestyle, including eating well, exercising and getting enough sleep
  * taking your prescribed medicines
  * following your management plan, if you have one.

Medicare funds [Chronic Diseases Management
(CDM)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/whos-covered-
medicare/health-care-and-ageing#chronic) plans. These plans help people who
need a structured approach to managing their chronic disease, including
ongoing care from a team of health professionals. Speak to your general
practitioner (GP) to see if you need a CDM plan.

See more information about treating and managing chronic diseases:

  * [healthdirect](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/management-of-chronic-conditions)
  * [Better Health Channel](https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/health/ServicesAndSupport/managing-long-term-illness-and-chronic-conditions)
  * condition-specific [support groups](https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/health/ServicesAndSupport/finding-a-support-group) in Australia.

See [chronic conditions contacts](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-
conditions-contacts "Chronic conditions contacts") for a list of
organisations, websites and services that offer support and information about
chronic conditions.

Last updated:

24 November 2020

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  * [Physical activity and exercise](/topics/physical-activity-and-exercise)
  * [Food and nutrition](/topics/food-and-nutrition)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)
  * [Overweight and obesity](/topics/overweight-and-obesity)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

  * [About chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/about-chronic-conditions)
  * [Chronic conditions in Australia](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-in-australia)
  * [What we’re doing about chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)
  * [Managing chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/managing-chronic-conditions)
  * [News](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

