Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

[Medicare](/topics/medicare)

# Medicare initiatives and programs

A list of programs we fund that are relevant to Medicare.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare initiatives and programs&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/programs)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/programs)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare initiatives and programs&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/programs)

Loading...

## Initiatives and programs

### [2020–25 National Health Reform Agreement (NHRA) ](/our-
work/2020-25-national-health-reform-agreement-nhra?language=en)

Signed by all Australian governments, the 2020–25 Addendum to National Health
Reform Agreement (NHRA) aims to improve health outcomes for all Australians
and ensure our health system is sustainable.

### [Electronic prescribing ](/our-work/electronic-prescribing?language=en)

Electronic prescribing is now widely available. It provides an option for
prescribers and their patients to use an electronic prescription as an
alternative to paper prescriptions. Paper prescriptions are still available.

### [Medical Treatment Overseas Program ](/our-work/medical-treatment-
overseas-program?language=en)

The Medical Treatment Overseas Program (MTOP) helps approved Australians who
have a life-threatening medical condition access life-saving medical treatment
overseas where treatment is not available in Australia.

### [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Continuous Review ](/our-work/medicare-
benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review?language=en)

The MBS Continuous Review ensures the MBS continues to support high-quality
care, remains flexible, and stays up to date. We do this through a process of
ongoing expert reviews.

### [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review  ](/our-work/mbs-
review?language=en)

The MBS Review considered how MBS items could be better aligned with
contemporary clinical evidence and practice, to improve health outcomes. The
review ran from 2015 to 2020. The Australian Government is progressively
considering and implementing the recommendations.

### [Medicare Benefits Schedule Better Access initiative – mental health
support for aged care residents during the COVID-19 pandemic ](/our-
work/medicare-benefits-schedule-better-access-initiative-mental-health-
support-for-aged-care-residents-during-the-covid-19-pandemic?language=en)

The expanded eligibility for aged care residents under the Better Access to
Psychiatrists, Psychologists and General Practitioners through the Medicare
Benefits Schedule (Better Access) initiative, through GP referral, ceases on
31 December 2022.

### [Medicare Urgent Care Clinics ](/our-work/medicare-urgent-care-
clinics?language=en)

The Australian Government has announced 58 Medicare Urgent Care Clinics
(Medicare UCCs) will open around the country. Medicare UCCs will give
Australian families more options to see a healthcare professional when they
have an urgent, but not life threatening, need for care.

### [Practitioner Review Program ](/our-work/practitioner-review-
program?language=en)

The Practitioner Review Program (PRP) identifies and intervenes where
practitioners’ and corporate entities’ activities under Medicare the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS), and the Child Dental Benefits Scheme
(CDBS) may indicate potential inappropriate practice.

### [Quality Use of Pathology Program  ](/our-work/quality-use-of-pathology-
program?language=en)

The Quality Use of Pathology Program (QUPP) provides grants for projects that
improve the management, delivery or use of Medicare pathology services.

### [Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme ](/our-work/radiation-
oncology-health-program-grants-scheme?language=en)

The Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme helps public and private
radiation oncology providers in areas of greatest need to purchase eligible
radiation therapy equipment.

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC&page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Next page Next › ](?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC&page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC&page=1 "Go to last page")

[View all initiatives and programs](/resources?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC)

Last updated:

20 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

