Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

[Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

# Life Saving Drugs Program for treating physicians

What treating physicians need to do to prescribe Life Saving Drugs Program
(LSDP) medicines, comply with program requirements, and make any required
changes.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Life Saving Drugs Program for treating physicians&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-treating-physicians)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-treating-physicians)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Life Saving Drugs Program for treating physicians&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-treating-physicians)

Loading...

On this page

## Applying for an LSDP medicine for your patient

Treating physicians can apply for LSDP medicines for their patients. You must
submit a completed [initial application form](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-
program/resources#resources-by-condition "Life Saving Drugs Program
resources") and supporting documents.

The patient must meet both:

  * [general eligibility criteria](/node/15395#patient-eligibility-criteria)
  * disease-specific eligibility criteria, as outlined in the relevant [guidelines](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources#resources-by-condition "Life Saving Drugs Program resources").

To apply, you must [email us](/contacts/life-saving-drugs-program-contact
"Life Saving Drugs Program contact"):

  * a completed initial application form for the specific disease
  * copies of all required test results as evidence (results must be less than 12 months old)
  * a clinic letter (less than 12 months old) outlining the patient’s recent medical and surgical history, and a general description of their health status.

## Approval process

We prioritise new applications. If the application is urgent, please tell us
why in the covering letter and mark it as urgent.

We will:

  * assess the application to confirm it is completed correctly and includes all the required information
  * confirm with Services Australia that the patient is eligible for Medicare
  * compare the individual test results to the specifications in the disease guidelines
  * assess the documentation to confirm the patient meets the eligibility criteria
  * confirm the prescribed dose is appropriate based on the patient’s characteristics (for example, age or weight)
  * work out the number of vials or tablets needed for each dose
  * seek internal expert advice as needed for complex applications
  * collate information and seek approval from the LSDP approval delegate.

If an application is incomplete, we will let you know and put the application
on hold until you respond.

If an application is complete, we will tell you the outcome within 30 days. We
process most applications within 8 days, and the most urgent applications
within 48 hours.

## Annual reapplication process

You must reassess each of your patients on the program every year. This
ensures patients:

  * remain eligible for the program
  * comply with the requirements for ongoing treatment
  * are reviewed by their treating physician (at least) annually.

Complete a disease-specific [reapplication form](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-
program/resources#resources-by-condition "Life Saving Drugs Program
resources") for each patient receiving LSDP medicines each year. Patients must
sign the reapplication consent form **each year** to agree to ongoing data
collection for review purposes.

## Managing changes

You must tell us immediately if a patient’s eligibility changes at any time
during treatment. You must also inform us about other changes such as:

  * dose changes – please include the new dose and clinical justification
  * ceasing treatment
  * patient travel plans
  * a change in treating physician (if your patient is changing treating physician for longer than 3 months, complete the [change in treating physician form](/resources/publications/life-saving-drugs-program-change-of-treating-physician-form "Life Saving Drugs Program – Change of treating physician form"). If the change in treating physician is for less than 3 months, please [email us](/contacts/life-saving-drugs-program-contact "Life Saving Drugs Program contact")).

If your patient restarts treatment after a break, complete a disease-specific
[reapplication form](/node/15400#resources-by-condition).

Find out more about your obligations in the [treating physician fact
sheet](/resources/publications/life-saving-drugs-program-fact-sheet-for-
treating-physicians "Life Saving Drugs Program – Fact sheet for treating
physicians").

## Clinical trials

You must tell us if your patient is taking part in a clinical trial. In most
cases, this will not affect a patient’s eligibility to access LSDP medicines.

## Home infusions

If your patient wishes to start home infusions, they must contact you.

You must determine if the patient is medically stable. This means that any
infusion-associated reactions are well controlled before home infusion
commences.

Most home infusion services are funded by the medicine sponsor (pharmaceutical
company) and provided by a contracted nursing agency. You will need to contact
the sponsor to complete an enrolment form, which includes patient consent.

Not all LSDP medicines can be delivered by a home infusion service. See the
[guidelines](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources#resources-by-
condition "Life Saving Drugs Program resources") for specific information.

## Fact sheet

[ ![Life Saving Drugs Program – Fact sheet for treating
physicians](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2023-04/life-
saving-drugs-program-fact-sheet-for-treating-physicians.png?itok=o0kzc8qk)
](/resources/publications/life-saving-drugs-program-fact-sheet-for-treating-
physicians)

###  [Life Saving Drugs Program – Fact sheet for treating physicians
](/resources/publications/life-saving-drugs-program-fact-sheet-for-treating-
physicians?language=en)

This fact sheet gives answers to common questions about the role of treating
physicians in prescribing Life Saving Drugs Program (LSDP) medicines.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Life Saving Drugs Program contact ](/contacts/life-saving-drugs-
program-contact?language=en)

Contact us with enquiries and submissions relating to the Life Saving Drugs
Program.

[lsdp@health.gov.au](mailto:lsdp@health.gov.au)

[02 6289 2336](tel:02 6289 2336)

[02 6289 8537](tel:02 6289 8537)

Last updated:

30 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)
  * [Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

  * [About the Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/about-the-lsdp)
  * [For patients](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-patients)
  * [For treating physicians](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-treating-physicians)
  * [For pharmacists](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-pharmacists)
  * [For medicine sponsors](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-medicine-sponsors)
  * [Resources](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

