Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Travel health

It’s important to prepare before travelling, especially when going overseas,
to avoid diseases and other health issues. Find out where to go for travel
health advice and what we’re doing to help Australian travellers stay healthy.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Travel health&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/travel-health?language=und)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/travel-health?language=und)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Travel health&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/travel-health?language=und)

Loading...

[Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic ](/health-alerts/covid-19?language=en)

30 March 2023

Find information about the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, how to protect
yourself and your family, where and when you can get vaccinated, and the
current situation in Australia.

## Before you leave

Overseas travel can be a great experience, but it can also expose you to
serious infectious diseases. Plan and prepare your travel to stay safe:

  * Research your destinations on the [Smartraveller](https://www.smartraveller.gov.au/) website.
  * See a doctor for medical advice and to find out what [vaccinations you need for travel](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-travel#vaccines-needed-for-travel "Immunisation for travel").
  * Understand how to avoid infection risks – see [travel health advice](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/travel-health-advice) for tips.
  * Use the [health checklist before you go](https://www.smartraveller.gov.au/before-you-go/health#checklist) to make sure you’ve covered everything.

Also see our guidance on [international travel and COVID-19](/health-
alerts/covid-19/international-travel "International travel and COVID-19").

If you are planning to get medical or dental treatment, do some research
first. For tips on how to reduce your risk, see [going overseas for a medical
procedure](https://www.smartraveller.gov.au/before-you-go/health/medical-
tourism).

## While you travel

When you are overseas you should take steps to reduce your risk of infectious
diseases:

  * Keep up to date about health risks with [Smartraveller subscriber alerts](https://subscription.smartraveller.gov.au/subscribe/).
  * Protect yourself from [insect-borne diseases](https://www.smartraveller.gov.au/before-you-go/health/diseases#insect-borne) and [diseases spread by animals](https://www.smartraveller.gov.au/before-you-go/health/diseases#animals).
  * Practice good [personal hygiene](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/personal-hygiene) and [food safety](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/food-safety).
  * Avoid contaminated food and water.
  * Avoid unprotected sex (and understand what [safe sex](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/safe-sex) means).
  * Avoid activities such as tattooing or sharing needles, to reduce your risk of [blood-borne diseases](https://www.smartraveller.gov.au/before-you-go/health/diseases#blood-borne).

If you need a doctor, medicine or mental health support, see [medical help
overseas](https://www.smartraveller.gov.au/while-youre-away/when-things-go-
wrong/medical-assistance) to find out what to do.

You **cannot** claim Medicare for telehealth or other services while you are
overseas, even if the healthcare provider is in Australia.

## When you return

If you become unwell:

  * before your trip home – see a doctor
  * on your way home – tell your flight or vessel crew or visit your vessel’s medical centre
  * while in the airport or seaport – tell a biosecurity officer 
  * in the weeks after you return home – see a doctor and tell them where you travelled.

Find out what [symptoms to watch out for when you
return](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/travel-health-advice#when-you-return).

If you are concerned about a disease, talk to a doctor or contact your [state
or territory health department](/about-us/contact-us/local-state-and-
territory-health-departments "Local state and territory health departments").

## What we’re doing about travel health

We provide information for travellers to help them avoid infectious diseases
and other health-related issues. Our work to support vaccination services
helps to keep travellers safe.

We also work to reduce the risk of diseases entering Australia through
international travel. Find out about:

  * [our role in biosecurity at the border](/topics/communicable-diseases/biosecurity/our-role "Our role in biosecurity")
  * [Australia’s international biosecurity obligations](/topics/communicable-diseases/biosecurity/international-obligations "International biosecurity obligations").

## Programs and resources

###  [ Travelling with medicines and medical devices
](https://www.tga.gov.au/travelling-medicines-and-medical-devices)

Watch this video to find out what to do when preparing for your trip and going
through border control. It also tells you about the requirements that may
apply when coming to Australia.

###  [ Medical Treatment Overseas Program ](/our-work/medical-treatment-
overseas-program)

If you are travelling overseas for life-saving medical treatment not available
in Australia, you can apply for financial help under this program.

###  [ Guidelines for yellow fever vaccination providers
](/resources/publications/national-guidelines-for-yellow-fever-vaccination-
centres-and-providers)

These guidelines help health practices seeking to become yellow fever
vaccination centres. Doctors and eligible nurse practitioners must complete a
course and become accredited.

## Support services

![Smart
Traveller](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/smartraveller.png?itok=zaXZ9jwg)

###  [ Smartraveller  ](/contacts/smartraveller?language=en)

Visit the Smartraveller website regularly to check for international
developments and subscribe to updates.

Consular assistance

[1300 555 135](tel:1300 555 135)

[Smartraveller](https://smartraveller.gov.au/)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

