Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

[Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

# Getting vaccinated

Find out what to do when booking your appointment, and what to expect at your
vaccination visit.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Getting vaccinated&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated?language=und)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated?language=und)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Getting vaccinated&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated?language=und)

Loading...

On this page

If you are looking for information COVID-19 vaccines, please visit the
[COVID-19 vaccination page.](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines)

## **Where to get vaccinated**

You can book a vaccine appointment at a range of health services. It's a good
idea to check your or your child's [immunisation
history](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/check-immunisation-history
"Check immunisation history") before you book an appointment.

The National Immunisation Program vaccines are available through:

  * general practices
  * local council immunisation clinics (available in some states and territories)
  * community health centres
  * Aboriginal Medical Services
  * pharmacies 
  * schools (for adolescents).

Not all of these vaccination providers can provide all [National Immunisation
Program vaccines](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/national-
immunisation-program-schedule "National Immunisation Program Schedule") in
your state or territory.

Contact your preferred vaccination provider to ask about the specific vaccines
they can provide, and to arrange an appointment.

## **Routine vaccines are free**

The National Immunisation Program provides routine vaccinations free to
eligible people. Infants, children, adolescents and adults who have, or are
eligible to have a Medicare card can receive the free vaccines. Find out if
you’re eligible for a [Medicare
card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-enrol-and-
get-started-medicare/enrolling-medicare#whocan).

You can check the [National Immunisation Program
schedule](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/national-immunisation-
program-schedule "National Immunisation Program Schedule") to find out which
vaccines you or your family are eligible to receive for free and when.

Find out more about what your recommended vaccines are, and [when you should
get them.](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated "When to get
vaccinated") All immunisations linked to [family assistance
payments](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisations-for-
access-to-family-assistance-benefits-and-early-childhood-services
"Immunisations for access to family assistance benefits and early childhood
services") are provided free. Vaccines recommended for travel or work are not
free.

While the routine vaccines are free, your vaccination provider **may charge a
consultation fee for the visit** **.** Check if there are any fees when making
your appointment.

### Free catch-up vaccinations

People who missed their recommended routine National Immunisation Program
vaccinations in childhood, can still get them for free up until they are 20
years old. The catch-up schedule will need to start before their 20th birthday
and may be completed beyond this date.

People who did not receive the HPV vaccine at 12 to 13 years of age are
eligible for a free catch-up dose up to age 26.

You need to have or be eligible to have a [Medicare
card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-enrol-and-
get-started-medicare/enrolling-medicare#whocan) to receive catch-up vaccines
for free.

Refugees and other humanitarian entrants of any age can also get National
Immunisation Program vaccines for free if they did not receive them in
childhood.

The number and range of vaccines and doses that are provided free is different
for people aged less than 10 years and those aged 10–19 years.

Check the [National Immunisation Program schedule](/topics/immunisation/when-
to-get-vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule "National
Immunisation Program Schedule") and talk to your vaccination provider if you
or your child has not had all the recommended vaccinations. They can recommend
a catch-up schedule based on age, vaccination history, and personal medical
history.

People aged 20 years and over who have not received all vaccines may still
benefit from a catch-up schedule, but these are not available for free. Some
vaccines may be funded under state programs.

### **Vaccines that aren’t free**

Vaccines not funded by the national program, may be funded under state and
territory government immunisation programs. Check the current immunisation
schedule for the [state or territory](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-
schedule#state-and-territory-immunisation-schedules) where you live.

You may need to purchase some vaccines privately on a script if they are not
provided through national, state or territory immunisation programs. This may
include vaccines recommended for people working in certain occupations and
industries, or travelling to countries that have a greater risk of disease.
Speak to your vaccination provider about the costs for vaccines that aren't
provided free such as vaccines for travel or work.

## **Who should get vaccinated**

Most people should get vaccinated. Your vaccination provider will tell you
which vaccinations you need based on your health, age, lifestyle and
occupation.

There are some exceptions, for example some people with weak immune systems or
people who are allergic (anaphylactic) to vaccine ingredients.

Certain medical conditions may influence whether you can be immunised. Your
ability to be immunised may change when your condition changes.

If you or your child have a minor illness and do not have a fever, you can be
safely vaccinated.

If you or your child have a major illness or a fever of 38.5 °C or more, you
should wait to until you are well to get vaccinated.

You should consult your doctor if you:

  * have a fever of more than 38.5 °C on the day
  * are receiving a medical treatment such as chemotherapy
  * have particular allergies or have reacted badly to a vaccine in the past
  * are planning pregnancy, are pregnant or breastfeeding are an organ transplant recipient
  * have an autoimmune disease or chronic condition.

## **What to expect at a vaccination visit**

During a vaccination visit, your vaccination provider will ask you a range of
questions. Read more about the pre-vaccination checklist and what to expect
[during your visit](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/during-the-visit
"During the visit").

## **Side effects after immunisation**

Vaccines, like any medication can have side effects. Most reactions, such as
low-grade fever and pain at the injection site are mild, usually short
lasting, and do not require special treatment.

There is a very small risk of a serious allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to any
vaccine. You should stay at the clinic or medical surgery for at least 15
minutes following immunisation in case further treatment is required.

Ask your vaccination provider about side effects from specific vaccines.

Learn more about [possible side effects of
vaccination](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/possible-side-effects-of-
vaccination "Possible side effects of vaccination").

## **Recording your vaccinations**

After your appointment, your vaccination provider will enter information about
the vaccine they gave you or your child into the Australian Immunisation
Register.

The register records all National Immunisation Program vaccines, and most
privately purchased vaccines, given to people of all ages.

Remind your vaccination provider to notify the register each time you are
vaccinated.

Find out how to [access your immunisation
records](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/check-immunisation-history
"Check immunisation history").

Last updated:

1 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

  * [About immunisation](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation)
  * [When to get vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated)
  * [Vaccines](/topics/immunisation/vaccines)
  * [Getting vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated)
    * [Check immunisation history](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/check-immunisation-history)
    * [During the visit](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/during-the-visit)
    * [Possible side effects of vaccination](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/possible-side-effects-of-vaccination)
  * [For health professionals](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals)
  * [Immunisation data](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-data)
  * [News](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

