Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Practitioner Review Program

The Practitioner Review Program (PRP) identifies and intervenes where
practitioners’ and corporate entities’ activities under Medicare the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS), and the Child Dental Benefits Scheme
(CDBS) may indicate potential inappropriate practice.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Practitioner Review Program&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/practitioner-review-program)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/practitioner-review-program)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Practitioner Review Program&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/practitioner-review-program)

Loading...

On this page

## **Practitioner Review Program overview**

We assist in protecting Medicare, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) and
Child Dental Benefits Scheme (CDBS) by reviewing practitioners and corporate
entities where potential inappropriate practice is identified.

The PRP reviews Medicare servicing behaviour to determine whether to request a
review by the Director of the Professional Services Review under the
Professional Services Review (PSR) Scheme. Practitioners are only referred to
the Director where concerns are unable to be resolved under the PRP.

Our process assesses a practitioner’s patterns of providing or initiating
Medicare services or prescribing PBS items to identify practitioners who
differ from their peers. This variance may indicate potential inappropriate
practice.

## **Inappropriate practice**

Inappropriate practice relates to conduct by practitioners or corporate
entities. It is detailed in [section 82 of the Health Insurance Act
1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2004A00101), and includes:

  * **Unacceptable conduct** – rendering or initiating Medicare, PBS or CDBS services which a PSR Committee could reasonably conclude was unacceptable to the general body of a practitioner's peers. Practitioners may be reviewed through [Practitioner Review Program – for practitioners](/resources/collections/prp-for-practitioners "PRP for practitioners") where there are concerns of potential [inappropriate practice](/resources/collections/inappropriate-practice "Inappropriate practice resource collection").
  * **Prescribed pattern of services** – rendering or initiating services by a practitioner during a particular period constituting a prescribed pattern of services, including: 
    * rendering or initiating 80 or more relevant services on each of 20 or more days in a 12-month period. This is known as [‘](/resources/collections/prescribed-pattern-of-services-the-8020-and-3020-rules "Prescribed pattern of services – The 80/20 and 30/20 rules")[the 80/20 rule](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/prescribed-pattern-of-service-the-8020-rule)’.
    * rendering or initiating 30 or more relevant phone services on each of 20 or more days in a 12-month period. This is known as [‘the 30/20 rule’](/resources/collections/prescribed-pattern-of-services-the-8020-and-3020-rules "Prescribed pattern of services – The 80/20 and 30/20 rules").
  * **Causing or permitting inappropriate practice** – knowingly, recklessly, or negligently causing or permitting a practitioner employed or otherwise engaged by the person to engage in conduct that constitutes inappropriate practice. These persons may be reviewed through the [Practitioner Review Program – for persons who employ or otherwise engage practitioners](/resources/publications/practitioner-review-a-guide-for-those-who-employ-or-engage-practitioners "Practitioner review – a guide for those who employ or engage practitioners").

## **How we conduct reviews**

We employ qualified health professionals to conduct PRP reviews. A PRP review
is not an indication of any wrongdoing or a judgement on the clinical care you
provide your patients. It is the first step in understanding why your Medicare
data differs from your peers.

If concerns cannot be resolved, the PRP process may result in a request being
made by the Chief Executive Medicare, or their delegate, to the Director to
review the relevant services over a period of up to one year.

If the Chief Executive Medicare becomes aware of a breach of the 80/20 rule, a
request to the Director must be made.

We acknowledge some practitioners may find the PRP process stressful. You may
wish to seek support available through:

  * professional bodies and other support services
  * other health professionals
  * family
  * colleagues, or support networks
  * Medical defence organisations
  * your professional indemnity insurer.

## **More information**

For more information about inappropriate practice, refer to the information
provided below, visit [PSR](https://www.psr.gov.au/), [MBS
Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/) ,or refer to [section 82 of the Health
Insurance Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2004A00101).

  * [**Inappropriate practice**](/resources/collections/inappropriate-practice "Inappropriate practice resource collection") – Information about what inappropriate practice is, how it is identified and why it is important to conduct compliance on inappropriate practice, and commonly found compliance issues 
    * Inappropriate practice
    * Our role in identifying possible inappropriate practice
    * Common compliance issues associated with findings of inappropriate practice
    * What to do to avoid practising inappropriately
  * [**PRP for practitioners**](/resources/collections/prp-for-practitioners "PRP for practitioners") – Information about how the PRP is applied to practitioners, including 
    * what you need to know 
    * the PRP interview
    * the PRP 6-month period of review
    * referral to a delegate without a 6-month period of review
    * delegate assessment

  * [**Prescribed Pattern of Services (the 80/20 and 30/20 rules)**](/resources/collections/prescribed-pattern-of-services-the-8020-and-3020-rules "Prescribed pattern of services – The 80/20 and 30/20 rules") – Information about the 80/20 and 30/20 rules including 
    * what you need to know
    * how 80/20 and 30/20 breaches are detected and next steps
    * exceptional circumstances
  * [**Preparing a written submission for the PRP – for practitioners**](/resources/publications/preparing-a-written-submission-for-the-practitioner-review-program-for-practitioners "Preparing a written submission for the Practitioner Review Program – for practitioners") – As part of the Practitioner Review Program (PRP) you may be given an opportunity to provide a written submission or additional information relating to concerns about your claiming or prescribing.
  * [**PRP for persons who employ or otherwise engage practitioners**](/resources/publications/practitioner-review-a-guide-for-those-who-employ-or-engage-practitioners "Practitioner review – a guide for those who employ or engage practitioners") – Information about how the PRP is applied to a person (including an individual, a practitioner, a body corporate, and officer of a body corporate) who employs or otherwise engages practitioners.
  * [**Health professional guidelines**](/resources/collections/health-professional-guidelines "Health professional guidelines") – Guidelines to help you understand what documents can be used to substantiate services if you are asked to participate in a compliance audit or review.
  * [**Frequently asked questions**](/resources/publications/practitioner-review-program-frequently-asked-questions "Practitioner Review Program – Frequently asked questions") – Frequently asked questions about the Practitioner Review Program.

Last updated:

24 February 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Practitioner Review Program](/our-work/practitioner-review-program)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

