Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Hospital care](/topics/hospital-care)
  4. [Our role in hospital care](/topics/hospital-care/our-role)

[Our role](/topics/hospital-care/our-role)

# Hospital Casemix Protocol (HCP) data

All hospitals must submit HCP data to health insurers, who then submit it to
us. Find out what HCP data is, what its uses are, who collects the data and
has access to it and how hospitals submit the data.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Hospital Casemix Protocol \(HCP\) data&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/hospital-care/our-role/hcp-data)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/hospital-care/our-role/hcp-data)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Hospital Casemix Protocol \(HCP\) data&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/hospital-care/our-role/hcp-data)

Loading...

On this page

## What HCP data is

Under the [Private Health Insurance Act
2007](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2021C00291), all hospitals must
submit Hospital Casemix Protocol (HCP) data to health insurers.

Both public and private hospitals submit data for each episode of admitted
hospital treatment for which health insurers have paid a benefit.

HCP data covers privately insured admitted patients and includes de-
identified:

  * clinical information, using a [patient care classification system](https://www.ihacpa.gov.au/health-care/classifications/icd-10-amachiacs)
  * demographic information
  * financial information, such as 
    * hospital charges
    * medical services and charges
    * prosthetic items and charges
    * private health insurance and Medicare benefits
    * consumer out-of-pocket expenses.

We have been collecting this data since 1995.

## Uses of HCP data

We use HCP data:

  * to develop policy
  * in the [Medical Costs Finder app](/resources/apps-and-tools/medical-costs-finder "Medical Costs Finder").

The Independent Health and Aged Care Pricing Authority uses HCP data when it
calculates the [national efficient
price](https://www.ihacpa.gov.au/pricing/national-efficient-price-
determination) (NEP) for hospital services. The NEP informs the amount of
Australian Government funding for public hospitals in Australia.

HCP data is also a valuable tool for:

  * research
  * evaluating services.

## Who can collect and access HCP data

Private health insurers collect HCP data. They then supply it to us.

We provide researchers with access to data according to our [data
strategy](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/data-strategy "Our data
strategy").

## How hospitals submit HCP data

New hospitals must contact us to get an account created.

Hospitals, including day facilities, initially upload their HCP data to our
Data Submission Portal (DSP) for data validation.

Once the files are validated, hospitals upload them to individual health
insurer portals. They must submit data every month, within 6 weeks of a
patient being discharged.

Health insurers then submit the data to our DSP within 20 weeks of the end of
the reporting month.

We store it in our [Enterprise Data Warehouse](/topics/health-data-and-
medical-research/our-data-collections "Our data collections").

Data specifications for the various files you need to upload are included in
our hospital data collection.

## Resources

### Hospital data collection

![Hospital data
resources](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2022/10/hospital-
data-resources.jpg?itok=idsrJhqH)

###  [Hospital data resources ](/resources/collections/hospital-data-
resources?language=en)

This collection contains resources to help hospitals meeting their data
reporting requirements. It includes data specifications, a user guide and
annual reports.

### PHI circulars

See our PHI circulars for any [updates about HCP data](/news/phi-
circulars?search_api_views_fulltext=hcp).

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Hospital data management contact ](/contacts/hospital-data-management-
contact?language=en)

Contact us for account creation (for new hospitals) and help with submitting
Hospital Casemix Protocol (HCP) and Private Health Data Bureau (PHDB) data.

[hcp@health.gov.au](mailto:hcp@health.gov.au)

[02 6289 8058](tel:02 6289 8058)

Last updated:

8 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Hospital care](/topics/hospital-care)
  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Hospital care](/topics/hospital-care)

  * [About hospital care](/topics/hospital-care/about)
  * [Our role](/topics/hospital-care/our-role)
    * [Hospital declarations](/topics/hospital-care/our-role/hospital-declarations)
    * [HCP data](/topics/hospital-care/our-role/hcp-data)
    * [PHDB data](/topics/hospital-care/our-role/phdb-data)
  * [News](/topics/hospital-care/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/hospital-care/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/hospital-care/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

