Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Victorian woman found guilty of defrauding Medicare

A Victorian medical receptionist has been sentenced today to 2 years
imprisonment, with a minimum term of 12 months by the Melbourne County Court
after pleading guilty to charging more than $181,000 in fraudulent Medicare
payments.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Victorian woman found guilty of defrauding Medicare&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/victorian-woman-found-guilty-of-defrauding-medicare)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/victorian-woman-found-guilty-of-defrauding-medicare)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Victorian woman found guilty of defrauding Medicare&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/victorian-woman-found-guilty-of-defrauding-medicare)

Loading...

Date published:

17 March 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

A Victorian medical receptionist has been sentenced today to 2 years
imprisonment, with a minimum term of 12 months by the Melbourne County Court
after pleading guilty to charging more than $181,000 in fraudulent Medicare
payments.

Following a successful referral to the Commonwealth Director of Public
Prosecutions (CDPP) by the Department of Health and Aged Care’s Benefits
Integrity Division, Ms Sarah Ward from Clyde North entered a guilty plea and
was sentenced to 2 years imprisonment after being charged with one count of
obtaining a financial advantage under section 134.2(1) of the Criminal Code
Act 1995. Ms Ward will be eligible for release after 12 months, subject to
being of good behaviour for 12 months and payment of a pecuniary penalty to
the Commonwealth of $1000.

During the period of 29 July 2017 and 27 March 2020, Ms Ward made false claims
relating to 1,610 Medicare Benefits Schedule items. 783 of the claims were
made in her name and 827 claims were made in the name of her husband.

As a result of the false claims, Ms Ward received $181,121.75 in Medicare
benefits to which she was not entitled. All monies have been repaid in full.

This case highlights the consequences of committing Medicare fraud.

The Department of Health and Aged Care has a range of methods to identify,
verify and investigate inaccurate Medicare claiming.

The department reviews all tip offs and where incorrectly or fraudulently
claimed benefits are identified, will seek to recover those funds and refer
matters to the CDPP where criminal prosecution is considered appropriate.

The department may work in partnership or request the assistance of law
enforcement bodies like the Australian Federal Police (AFP) or State Police
where appropriate.

Anyone with information about suspected non-compliance or fraud of Government
health payments by health providers can make a report via the “Reporting
Fraud” page on the Department of Health’s website at [www.health.gov.au/fraud-
tip-offs](http://www.health.gov.au/fraud-tip-offs) or by calling the Provider
Benefits Integrity Hotline on 1800 314 808.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### Departmental media enquiries

Contact for members of the media

[news@health.gov.au](mailto:news@health.gov.au?subject=Media enquiry - News
item ID 3086&body=URL - https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.au%2Fnews%2Fvictorian-
woman-found-guilty-of-defrauding-medicare)

[02 6289 7400](tel:02 6289 7400)

[View contact](/contacts/departmental-media-enquiries)

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

