Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Minister for Health and Aged Care - press conference - 17 May 2023

Read the transcript of Minister Butler's press conference in Melbourne on
Victoria's Urgent Care Clinics

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Minister for Health and Aged Care - press conference - 17 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-17-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-17-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Minister for Health and Aged Care - press conference - 17 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-press-conference-17-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

17 May 2023

Date published:

19 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**VICTORIAN MINISTER FOR HEALTH AND AMBULANCE SERVICES, MARY-ANNE THOMAS:**
Good morning, everyone. It's really great to be here in South Melbourne today
with the Federal Minister for Health, Mark Butler. But before I start, I
wanted to firstly acknowledge the children and the families who have been
impacted by the terrible crash that we saw in Eynesbury last night. I've been
on the phone this morning to the CEO of the Royal Children's Hospital. All
Victorians can be assured that the children are receiving the very best care.
But obviously, this is a really traumatic time for close-knit community, and
our thoughts are with all of the Exford Park Primary School community.

It's now my pleasure to hand over to Federal Minister for Health, Mark Butler.
It's great to have Mark here in Victoria. Our government is delighted to have
a true partner now in Canberra and we've been working very effectively
together. We’ll always stand up for Victoria, of course, Mark knows that, but
we very much welcome him here today.

**MINISTER FOR HEALTH AND AGED CARE, MARK BUTLER:** Thank you Mary-Anne, can I
add my words of solidarity and support to the community that's been impacted
by this accident. The whole nation has been deeply shocked by the reports, the
images, of what happened to this school community, this beautiful group of
young children, and I know the whole nation is really just praying for the
recovery of those children. Thank you, Mary-Anne, for providing us with that
update.

I'm really pleased to be here with the Victorian Minister for Health, and my
friend and colleague, Josh Burns, the local member here, the Member for
Macnamara, in a terrific announcement about our plans to continue to
strengthen Medicare. We were elected last year as the Federal Government on
three core promises in the health and aged care portfolio. The first to
strengthen Medicare, the second to deliver cheaper medicines, and the third to
fix aged care and implement the recommendations of the Royal Commission into
the Aged Care System. Last week's Budget delivered on all three of those
promises.

In Medicare we delivered more than $6 billion in new spending to strengthen
Medicare. As well as $1.5 billion dollars in a boost to indexation, which will
deliver the largest across the board increase in Medicare rebates in more than
30 years - since Paul Keating was the Prime Minister of this country. And the
centrepiece of our strengthening Medicare program is a $3.5 billion dollar
investment to triple bulk billing incentives to return bulk billing as the
beating heart of Medicare, and to really strengthen the financial position of
great primary care providers like this one – Star Health in South Melbourne,
which is part of the Better Health Network, right through big parts of
Melbourne, down, I think, into the peninsula. So, this is a really important
investment. We went to the election saying that we unashamedly placed general
practice and primary care right at the top of the list of health portfolio
priorities that we have. And I know the Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews has
been leading work for states and territories in this area, and has also
recognised that fixing primary care after 10 years of cuts and neglect is not
just only important to ensure that people can get the care in the community
when and where they need it, but it's also incredibly important to take
pressure off hospital systems that are dealing with strain right across the
world, not just here in Victoria, not just across Australia, but right across
the world, after three years of terrible pandemic.

A core element of our plan to deliver better care in the community and take
pressure off hospitals is our network of Medicare Urgent Care Clinics. We
promised 50 at the last election and last week's Budget built on that by
delivering 58 Urgent Care Clinics funded by the Commonwealth, right across
Australia. These will deliver services on a seven-day basis per week, across
extended hours from 8am to 10pm. And will be fully bulk-billed. They’ll be
available for walk-in clients who are dealing with non-life-threatening
emergencies that need care immediately. Whether it's your kid falling off the
skateboard or busting their arm, or a deep cut, or an urgent infection, often
people just aren't able to get into their normal GP quickly enough to deal
with that emergency, and too often that means they're ending up at emergency
departments.

We have about 4 million presentations every single year in emergency
departments that are classified as semi-urgent or non-urgent, and it's
important for us to take as much of that pressure off those hospitals into
primary care where they can be adequately cared for as we possibly can. Now
we've had great partnership with all state and territory governments that have
deeply invested time and energy, they’ve co-designed this new model of care
across the country, and that partnership has been no more apparent anywhere in
the country than here in Victoria, where I know that Mary-Anne and the Premier
have taken up this new model with real energy. So, we've been delighted to be
able to partner with the Victorian Government across eight of those centres,
which we will take up funding responsibility for from 1 July. There are two
additional centres that we’re committed to opening over the course of this
year. The first of which will be in Sunbury on the outskirts of Melbourne, and
the second of which will be here in South Melbourne, building on a terrific
work that services like this one have been delivering for so many years.
Expressions of Interest will open next week for the South Melbourne Urgent
Care Clinic, and we look forward to that being able to start delivering
services over the course of 2023. Happy to take questions.

**JOURNALIST:** Minister Butler, on the changes announced today, there will
only be a gain of two clinics in Victoria. So why is the Federal Government
not creating an additional eight clinics to build on the work the state
government has done and take further pressure off hospitals?

**BUTLER:** If you look at the election commitment that we made for the May
2022 election, we identified 10 locations for Commonwealth funded Medicare
Urgent Care Clinics, eight of which are already operating. Now what the
Victorian Government - to their great credit - decided was that they could
stand up those clinics quicker than we could as a newly elected government.
And they decided to do that to take pressure off their own hospital systems to
deliver care into the community in those eight regions, on the understanding
that funding will be transferred to the Commonwealth Government from 1 July.
That is what precisely is happening. So without the Victorian Government
taking those steps, we would not have been able to deliver those services as
quickly in those eight regions as we've been able to do. But they were always
intended to transfer back to us and be funded through the money that was
allocated in last week's Budget.

**JOURNALIST:** A question for the Member for Macnamara, do you stand by your
views on reforming negative gearing rules that are different to the PM and the
Treasurers views, and will you raise this at National Conference?

**MEMBER FOR MACNAMARA, JOSH BURNS:** Well, there’s a bit in that. A bit of
mayo put on that question. Let me say clearly that the issues in the housing
sector right now revolve entirely around supply. And it is absolute madness
that we have this wacky coalition of the Greens, One Nation, Clive Palmer's
bloke, and the Coalition blocking the biggest investment in social and
affordable housing in almost a decade. The Federal Government hasn't been
involved in housing for a very long time, and this Labor Government that I'm
so proud to be involved in with Mark and the Treasurer and the Prime Minister,
is putting public housing and social housing back on the agenda. If the Greens
are going to stand with this wacky coalition of One Nation, Clive Palmer's
bloke, and the Coalition Peter Dutton’s mob, then they need to explain why
they're blocking social and affordable housing. I stand by the Prime Minister
and the Treasurer, we have a really collaborative culture in the Federal
Parliament. We talk about a whole range of policy ideas, but the biggest issue
in the housing sector is supply.

**JOURNALIST:** So just going back to that previous question, just confirming
that with the Federal Government taking over state funding for the centres
that was due to end this year, were that not to happen would there be a risk
of those centres closing?

**THOMAS:** Let's be absolutely clear, primary care is a Federal Government
responsibility. And after 10 years of neglect under the previous Federal
Coalition Government, our government took action to establish priority primary
care centres here in Victoria, because we needed to take pressure off our
emergency departments. Under the former Federal Coalition Government, Medicare
was broken. We stepped in, we're proud to do so, but now that we have a
partner in Canberra that we can work with, a Federal Labor Government that
takes its responsibilities to deliver primary care seriously, we can work on
models that are going to best serve the needs of our communities.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

