Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Childhood Immunisation logo](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Childhood Immunisation

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/childhood-immunisation)
  * [Routine immunisation](/childhood-immunisation/routine-childhood-immunisation)
  * [Schedule](/childhood-immunisation/immunisation-schedule)
  * [Your questions answered](/childhood-immunisation/your-questions-answered)
  * [Getting vaccinated](/childhood-immunisation/getting-vaccinated)
  * [Resources](/childhood-immunisation/resources)
  * [Translated resources](/childhood-immunisation/translated-resources)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/childhood-immunisation)

[Childhood Immunisation]()

# Your questions answered

You may have questions about vaccinating your child. Below are answers to some
of the common questions, based on the latest evidence and proven advice.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Your questions answered&url=https://www.health.gov.au/childhood-immunisation/your-questions-answered)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/childhood-immunisation/your-questions-answered)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Your questions answered&body=https://www.health.gov.au/childhood-immunisation/your-questions-answered)

Loading...

On this page

## How vaccines work

Open all Close all

  * How do vaccines work? 

Vaccines protect us by using our body’s natural defences to build resistance
to specific infections before we come into contact with them.

When a child gets a vaccine, their body produces an immune response in the
same way it would after exposure to a disease. If the child comes in contact
with that disease in the future, their immune system remembers it and responds
quickly, preventing the disease from developing.

Vaccines give protection without causing disease. They are safer than getting
the disease itself.

    * [Academy of science – What is immunisation video](https://www.science.org.au/education/immunisation-climate-change-genetic-modification/science-immunisation)
    * [About immunisation](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation "About immunisation")
    * [Questions about vaccination](/resources/publications/questions-about-vaccination "Questions about vaccination ")  

  * How does vaccination protect children and the community? 

Vaccination protects children against serious diseases that could lead to
complications including disability and even death. By vaccinating your child
you help protect other members of your family or community who are vulnerable,
pregnant women, older people and people with health conditions. It is much
harder for a disease to spread when many people in the community are
vaccinated. This is called this herd immunity.

The benefit of herd immunity is we can protect those who cannot get
vaccinated, including babies who are too young to get vaccinated or people who
can’t get vaccinated for medical reasons.

    * [Academy of science – What is immunisation video](https://www.science.org.au/education/immunisation-climate-change-genetic-modification/science-immunisation)
    * [About immunisation](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation "About immunisation")
    * [Questions about vaccination](/resources/publications/questions-about-vaccination "Questions about vaccination ")

  * What is in vaccines? 

Vaccines contain several ingredients including an antigen, which is a modified
form of the virus, bacteria or toxin that causes the disease.

Other ingredients such as adjuvants, preservatives and stabilisers ensure
vaccines are safe and effective, helping to strengthen the immune response,
making them work better.  
Vaccine ingredients can look unfamiliar as a list on a label. However, many of
the components used in vaccines occur naturally in the body, environment and
foods we eat.

All the ingredients in vaccines – and the vaccines themselves – are thoroughly
tested and monitored to ensure they are safe.

    * [What is in the vaccines? Sharing Knowledge about Immunisation video](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/What-is-in-the-vaccines)
    * [What ingredients are in vaccines?](/resources/publications/questions-about-vaccination "Questions about vaccination ")

  * Do vaccines contain mercury? 

Mercury is no longer used as a preservative in any vaccines routinely given to
children in Australia. Before 2000, some contained thiomersal (a compound
containing mercury) as a preservative in multidose packaging. Scheduled
childhood vaccines under the National Immunisation Program come in a single
dose package.

    * [What is in the vaccines? Sharing Knowledge about Immunisation video](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/What-is-in-the-vaccines)
    * [Do vaccines contain aluminium or mercury?](/resources/publications/questions-about-vaccination "Questions about vaccination ")

  * Do some children get the disease even if immunised? 

Yes, it is possible since no vaccine is 100% effective. Protection levels
provided by vaccines differ, so a small number of people who do not develop
immunity may still get the disease. They usually experience a less severe
disease if they are vaccinated.

## Vaccine safety

Open all Close all

  * Are vaccines safe? 

Yes, vaccines are safe. All vaccines go through rigorous testing to ensure
they are safe and effective before approval in Australia by the Therapeutic
Goods Administration (TGA). This includes various stages of clinical trials
and testing of ingredients. Vaccines that don’t meet quality and safety
criteria do not get approval and are not available for use. This forms part of
a comprehensive process before listing vaccines on the National Immunisation
Program.

Once available, their safety continues to be monitored with any concerns
raised taken very seriously and investigated promptly. This is through
reporting of adverse events to the [TGA](https://www.tga.gov.au/vaccines-
overview) and national active monitoring through
[AusVaxSafety](https://ausvaxsafety.org.au/).

    * [Vaccine safety](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation/vaccine-safety "Vaccine safety")
    * [Academy of Science – Are vaccines safe? video](https://www.science.org.au/education/immunisation-climate-change-genetic-modification/science-immunisation)
    * [Vaccine safety and effectiveness: how is it tested? - Curious (science.org.au)](https://www.science.org.au/curious/people-medicine/vaccine-safety-and-effectiveness-how-it-tested)
    * [How do I know the vaccines are safe? Sharing Knowledge about Immunisation](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/How-do-I-know-the-vaccines-are-safe)

  * What are the risks and benefits of vaccines? 

Vaccines protect people from serious infectious diseases that once harmed many
infants, children, and adults and caused deaths every year. Without vaccines,
your child is at risk of getting seriously ill and suffering ongoing
complications, and even death from diseases like measles and whooping cough.
While there are possible side effects of vaccination, these are almost always
mild (redness and swelling where the needle went in) and disappear in a few
days. Serious side effects after vaccination, such as a severe allergic
reaction, are very rare.

It is safer to be vaccinate than get the disease. For example, tetanus could
cause extreme pain, muscle spasms, and difficulty breathing. Measles could
cause pneumonia or brain swelling.

    * [Who benefits from vaccines? Australian Academy of Science](https://www.science.org.au/education/immunisation-climate-change-genetic-modification/science-immunisation/3-who-benefits)
    * [Questions about vaccination](/resources/publications/questions-about-vaccination "Questions about vaccination ")

  * What about autism? 

No. There is no established link between vaccines and autism. The measles,
mumps, rubella (MMR) vaccine doesn’t cause autism. High-quality studies and
reviews over many years have compared the health of large numbers of
vaccinated and unvaccinated children. The studies found no link between the
MMR vaccine and autism. Scientific studies and reviews continue to show no
relationship between vaccines and autism.

The suggested link between the MMR vaccine and autism was first published in
1998 in a research paper published in a respected medical journal.

Since then, scientists have completely discredited this paper based on only 12
children. In 2004, the authors retracted their claim of a link between
vaccination and autism. In 2010, the journal withdrew the paper after the UK’s
General Medical Council found the results in the paper had proved to be false.
The journal issued a retraction.

    * [What about autism? Sharing Knowledge About Immunisation](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/What-about-autism)
    * [Are vaccines safe? Australian Academy of Science](https://www.science.org.au/education/immunisation-climate-change-genetic-modification/science-immunisation/4-are-vaccines-safe)

## Side effects

Open all Close all

  * What reactions might appear after receiving a vaccine? 

Most of the side effects associated with vaccines are minor, and usually go
away within a few days.

Some children might have common reactions such as:

    * redness, swelling and soreness where the needle went in
    * appearing grizzly, unsettled, unhappy and sleepy
    * a mild fever. 

These reactions show the immune system is interacting with the vaccine. This
is normal. While these symptoms may concern you and upset your child at the
time, they usually resolve quickly on their own.

To reduce fever or soreness after vaccination, you can use pain relief
medicines, such as paracetamol, as directed.

Serious side effects from immunisation are very rare. There is a very small
risk of a serious allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to any vaccine. Anaphylaxis
usually happens within a few minutes of vaccination, before you and your baby
leave the clinic. This is why you are asked to stay at the clinic or medical
surgery for at least 15 minutes following immunisation in case further
treatment is required.

Your doctor or nurse knows what to do to help a baby having an anaphylactic
reaction recover quickly.

If your child has a reaction that you think is severe or unexpected, seek
medical advice straight away.

    * [Possible side effects of vaccination](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/possible-side-effects-of-vaccination "Possible side effects of vaccination")
    * [Following vaccination – what to expect and what to do](/resources/publications/following-vaccination-what-to-expect-and-what-to-do "Following vaccination – what to expect and what to do")
    * [Common reactions – Sharing Knowledge about Immunisation](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/common-reactions)
    * [Australia’s active vaccine safety program AusVaxSafety](https://ausvaxsafety.org.au/safety-data/national-immunisation-program-schedule-vaccines)  

  * Is it safe for children to receive multiple vaccines at the same time? 

Yes. Giving babies and children several vaccines at a single visit is safe.
Combination vaccines allow children to be immunised against more diseases with
fewer injections. This means less pain and stress for the child.

For example, one of the vaccines given at 2, 4 and 6 months of age provides
protection against 6 diseases, which means your baby is protected against 6
diseases by having this injection in a single visit. This is completely safe
and will not overload the immune system.

Infants’ immune systems are very strong. Babies encounter many thousands of
different types of antigens (parts of organisms that cause disease, such as
bacteria or viruses). Vaccines contain only a very small number of antigens
compared with the large number children encounter every day. Vaccines will
strengthen your baby’s immunity to protect them from some of the most
dangerous infectious diseases.

    * [Questions about vaccination](/resources/publications/questions-about-vaccination "Questions about vaccination ")
    * [What is immunisation? Australian Academy of Science](https://www.science.org.au/learning/immunisation-and-climate-change/science-immunisation/what-is-immunisation)
    * [Why is the schedule the way it is? Sharing Knowledge about Immunisation](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/Why-is-the-schedule-the-way-it-is)

  * Do vaccines cause or worsen asthma and allergies in children? 

No. There is no evidence that vaccines cause or worsen asthma or allergies. It
is important that children with asthma or allergies are vaccinated to reduce
their chance of getting a serious infection, which could make their existing
condition worse.

Some vaccines contain ingredients that can be allergens. So, if your child is
allergic to any foods or medicines, you should tell your doctor or nurse so
they can check that the vaccines they plan to give your child are safe.

    * [Questions about vaccination](/resources/publications/questions-about-vaccination "Questions about vaccination ")

## Vaccine preventable diseases

Open all Close all

  * Are the diseases we vaccinate children against really serious? 

Yes. The diseases that routine immunisation protect against can be serious and
even fatal. We don’t hear much about them as they are no longer common due to
the success of vaccination programs in Australia. However, If we don't
vaccinate, the serious diseases will re-emerge in the community.

    * [Questions about vaccination](/resources/publications/questions-about-vaccination "Questions about vaccination ")

  * If the diseases are rarely seen, why does my child still need vaccines? 

Childhood immunisations are needed to protect children, even if we don’t often
see the diseases they protect against.

Some diseases are no longer common in Australia because of vaccines, such as
polio, diphtheria and measles. If we stopped vaccinating, the few cases we
have in Australia could very quickly become tens or hundreds of thousands of
cases.

Even though many serious vaccine-preventable diseases are uncommon in
Australia, some are common in other parts of the world, such as measles and
polio. Even if your family does not travel internationally, you could come
into contact with international travellers anywhere in your community.

Getting your child vaccinated can also help protect people who can’t be
vaccinated through herd immunity.

## Vaccination schedule

Open all Close all

  * Why do children need so many vaccines at such an early age? 

Children get vaccines to protect them as soon as possible as they are at
greatest risk from disease while they are very young. Even though babies’
immune systems are strong, vaccinations in early stages of life are vital
because they protect babies while their immune system is still developing.

Babies are perfectly capable of tolerating vaccines, just like they handle the
thousands of bacteria and viruses they encounter in their environment since
the moment of birth. Immunisation can protect your child from serious
infections that could lead to suffering, hospitalisation or even be fatal.

The schedule is different in other countries because patterns of disease,
strains of viruses or bacteria, medical care, available vaccines and their
costs vary from country to country.

    * [Why is the schedule the way it is? Sharing Knowledge about Immunisation](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/Why-is-the-schedule-the-way-it-is)

  * Can I space out or delay some vaccines? 

Delaying or spacing out vaccines means children are unprotected for longer
than need be, at an age when disease is most common or most serious. The first
dose of a vaccine is recommended for the youngest age that a baby’s immune
system is mature enough to give a good response and get good protection.

The timing of each dose of every vaccine given to babies and children is
chosen with care based on many decades of research. It is best to follow the
[National Immunisation Program schedule](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-
vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule "National Immunisation
Program Schedule") and the due dates. Even if you’re just a few weeks late
this puts your child at risk of contracting serious disease.

Spacing out vaccines would also mean that a child is likely to need more
vaccination appointments and injections. This would mean more stress for the
child. Research has shown that children experience just as much stress when
they get one needle as they do when they get more than one.

    * [Why is the schedule the way it is? Sharing Knowledge about Immunisation](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/Why-is-the-schedule-the-way-it-is)

  * Why do some children need extra vaccines? 

Some children may need extra vaccines if they are at a higher risk of disease.
Additional vaccines for certain groups are also available free under the
National Immunisation program. This could be children with certain medical
conditions that put them at greater risk of disease. Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander children also have a higher risk of some diseases than non-
Indigenous people.

Speak to your doctor about your child’s specific needs.

    * [Immunisation for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-people "Immunisation for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people ")
    * [Immunisation for people with medical risk conditions](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-people-with-medical-risk-conditions "Immunisation for people with medical risk conditions ")

  * Should I delay immunisations if my child is unwell? 

You can immunise babies and children with minor coughs and colds without
fever, or babies recovering from an illness safely and effectively.

If a child is very unwell with a high fever (over 38.5 degrees Celsius) you
should postpone the immunisation.

You can arrange an appointment a week or two later when your child is well
again. If in any doubt, ask your doctor or health clinic staff before delaying
immunisation.

  * What if my child misses a scheduled vaccination? 

On time vaccination offers the best protection. However if your child has
fallen behind it is easy to catch up. There is no need to repeat the doses
already received and there is no need to get extra doses. Talk to your
immunisation provider about a catch-up program.

  * Are all childhood immunisations free? 

Under the National Immunisation Program, routine vaccines are free if your
child is eligible for Medicare. Your doctor may charge a consultation fee.

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children and children with certain
medical conditions may receive recommendation to receive extra vaccines for
free. Speak to your doctor, nurse or health care worker about your child's
specific needs.

    * [Getting vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated "Getting vaccinated")
    * [Immunisation for infants and children](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated/immunisation-for-infants-and-children "Immunisation for children"). 

## More information

If you have more questions or want more detail to help you decide about
vaccination, check out the following resources. Your doctor, nurse or health
care worker can also give vaccination information for you and your family.  
  
When looking online for vaccine information, be sure to use reliable sources
based on scientific evidence.

  * [Sharing Knowledge About Immunisation website](https://talkingaboutimmunisation.org.au/)
  * [Questions about vaccination booklet](/resources/publications/questions-about-vaccination "Questions about vaccination ")
  * [The Science of Immunisation booklet](https://www.science.org.au/education/immunisation-climate-change-genetic-modification/science-immunisation)

Last updated:

31 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [National Immunisation Program](/our-work/national-immunisation-program)

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

