Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

[Pathology](/topics/pathology)

# Pathology resources

A list of resources – including reports and publications – about pathology.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Pathology resources&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/pathology-resources)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/pathology-resources)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Pathology resources&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/pathology-resources)

Loading...

## Resources

![Case study – Billing of diagnostic and pathology services in emergency
departments and for public
patients](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/08/case-study-billing-
of-diagnostic-and-pathology-services-in-emergency-departments-and-for-public-
patients.jpg)

### [Case study – Billing of diagnostic and pathology services in emergency
departments and for public patients ](/resources/publications/case-study-
billing-of-diagnostic-and-pathology-services-in-emergency-departments-and-for-
public-patients?language=en)

1 August 2022

Fact sheet

This case study about diagnostic and pathology services will help you improve
your Medicare billing practices.

![Quality Use of Pathology Program Project Grants \(2021-2023\) GO5049 –
Feedback for
applicants](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/07/quality-use-of-
pathology-program-qupp-project-grants-2021-23.png)

### [Quality Use of Pathology Program (QUPP) project grants 2021–23
](/resources/publications/quality-use-of-pathology-program-qupp-project-
grants-2021-23?language=en)

14 July 2022

Guideline

This document provides feedback to applicants for the Quality Use of Pathology
Program Projects grant round (2021–23) GO5049 that was open on GrantConnect
from 3 September 2021 to 19 October 2021.

![ Pathology test guide for cervical and vaginal testing - Cover
image](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/07/national-cervical-
screening-program-pathology-test-guide-for-cervical-and-vaginal-testing.png)

### [National Cervical Screening Program – Pathology test guide for cervical
and vaginal testing ](/resources/publications/national-cervical-screening-
program-pathology-test-guide-for-cervical-and-vaginal-testing?language=en)

1 July 2022

Guideline

This table shows the guidelines for pathology testing of cervical and vaginal
samples.

![Cover image for Quality Use of Pathology Program \(QUPP\) – Final report for
the Common Sense Pathology 2018–2021
project](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/06/quality-use-of-
pathology-program-qupp-final-report-for-the-common-sense-
pathology-2018-2021-project.png)

### [Quality Use of Pathology Program (QUPP) – Final report for the Common
Sense Pathology 2018–2021 project ](/resources/publications/quality-use-of-
pathology-program-qupp-final-report-for-the-common-sense-
pathology-2018-2021-project?language=en)

August 2021

Report

This final report outlines what The Royal College of Pathologists of
Australasia Common Sense Pathology project achieved. The QUPP funded this
project between 2018 and 2021.

![Cover of Reporting pathology or diagnostic imaging prohibited practices
form](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2021/05/reporting-pathology-or-
diagnostic-imaging-prohibited-practices.png)

### [Reporting pathology or diagnostic imaging prohibited practices
](/resources/publications/reporting-pathology-or-diagnostic-imaging-
prohibited-practices?language=en)

3 June 2021

Form

Use this form if you are a requester or provider of diagnostic imaging (DI) or
pathology services and want to let us know about another person who has asked
for or accepted or  
offered or provided a prohibited benefit, or made a threat.

![Budget 2021–⁠22
logo](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2021/05/guaranteeing-medicare-
investing-in-pathology.png)

### [Guaranteeing Medicare – Investing in pathology
](/resources/publications/guaranteeing-medicare-investing-in-
pathology?language=en)

11 May 2021

Fact sheet

A Budget 2021–22 fact sheet.

![Cover image for Quality Use of Pathology Program \(QUPP\) – Final report for
the Pathology, Information, Terminology and Units Standardisation project
\(PITUS 18–20\)](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/06/quality-use-
of-pathology-program-qupp-final-report-for-the-pathology-information-
terminology-and-units-standardisation-project-pitus-18-20.png)

### [Quality Use of Pathology Program (QUPP) – Final report for the Pathology,
Information, Terminology and Units Standardisation project (PITUS 18–20)
](/resources/publications/quality-use-of-pathology-program-qupp-final-report-
for-the-pathology-information-terminology-and-units-standardisation-project-
pitus-18-20?language=en)

March 2021

Report

This final report outlines what The Royal College of Pathologists of
Australasia (RCPA) PITUS 18–20 project achieved. The QUPP funded previous
phases of this project.

![budget-2020](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2020/09/budget-2020-21-strengthening-
primary-care-covid-19-pandemic-response-pathology.png)

### [Budget 2020-21: Strengthening Primary Care – COVID-19 pandemic response –
pathology ](/resources/publications/budget-2020-21-strengthening-primary-care-
covid-19-pandemic-response-pathology?language=en)

6 October 2020

Fact sheet

A Budget 2020-21 fact sheet.

![budget-2020](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2020/09/budget-2020-21-aged-
care-covid-19-pandemic-response-pathology-testing-in-aged-care.png)

### [Budget 2020-21: Aged Care – COVID-19 pandemic response – pathology
testing in aged care ](/resources/publications/budget-2020-21-aged-care-
covid-19-pandemic-response-pathology-testing-in-aged-care?language=en)

6 October 2020

Fact sheet

A Budget 2020-21 fact sheet.

![Cover image for Quality Use of Pathology Program \(QUPP\) – Final report for
the structured pathology reporting of cancer in Australia 2017–20
project](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/06/quality-use-of-
pathology-program-qupp-final-report-for-the-structured-pathology-reporting-of-
cancer-in-australia-2017-20-project.png)

### [Quality Use of Pathology Program (QUPP) – Final report for the structured
pathology reporting of cancer in Australia 2017–20 project
](/resources/publications/quality-use-of-pathology-program-qupp-final-report-
for-the-structured-pathology-reporting-of-cancer-in-
australia-2017-20-project?language=en)

September 2020

Report

This final report outlines the results of the Royal College of Pathologists of
Australasia structured pathology reporting of cancer in Australia 2017–20
project.

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Page 3 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=2 "Go to page 3")
  * [ Page 4 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=3 "Go to page 4")
  * [ Next page Next › ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=3 "Go to last page")

[View all
resources](/resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

Last updated:

30 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

  * [About pathology](/topics/pathology/about-pathology)
  * [What we're doing about pathology](/topics/pathology/what-were-doing-about-pathology)
  * [Pathology compliance](/topics/pathology/compliance)
  * [Resources](/topics/pathology/pathology-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/pathology/pathology-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

