Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell Framework and Programs

Haemopoietic progenitor cells (HPC) therapy can save the lives of patients
with conditions of the blood, blood-producing organs or immune system. The
program funds several initiatives to help eligible Australians to access HPC
treatments.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell Framework and Programs&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/haemopoietic-progenitor-cell-framework-and-programs)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/haemopoietic-progenitor-cell-framework-and-programs)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell Framework and Programs&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/haemopoietic-progenitor-cell-framework-and-programs)

Loading...

On this page

## About haemopoietic progenitor cell transplant

People who most commonly need haemopoietic progenitor cell (HPC) treatment
have a blood or immune disorder, which has seriously affected their bone
marrow. They might also have had high doses of chemotherapy or irradiation.
This can damage their bone marrow and prevent it working normally.

HPC cells are self-renewing and can change and mature into all blood cell
types. An HPC transplant regenerates marrow and blood systems, potentially
saving or extending the recipient’s life.

The patient’s condition determines the transplant method they need. It could
be:

  * autologous – using patients own tissue
  * allogeneic – from a related donor
  * allogeneic – from an unrelated donor.

## Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell Framework

[ ![Cover of the HPC framework
report](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2021/11/national-
haemopoietic-progenitor-cell-hpc-framework.jpg?itok=NC3nSOn9)
](/resources/publications/national-haemopoietic-progenitor-cell-hpc-framework)

###  [National Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell (HPC) Framework
](/resources/publications/national-haemopoietic-progenitor-cell-hpc-
framework?language=en)

The National Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell (HPC) Framework aims to guide the
effective, evidence-based future operations and management of the Australian
HPC sector.

## **Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell** Programs

Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell Programs aims to improve Australians’ access to
HPC transplants.

They provide important support to HPC donors and patients who need HPC
treatments in Australia.

Through the HPC Program, we improve patients’ access to HPC treatment by
funding the International Search Program (ISP) and Bone Marrow Transplant
Program (BMTP).

### International Searches Program (ISP)

ISP helps to find a suitable international donor for patients who need HPC
treatment.

Patients can access the ISP if they cannot find a suitable donor in Australia.
ISP provides funding for the [Australian Bone Marrow Donor
Registry](http://www.abmdr.org.au/) (ABMDR) to search international registries
for a match for the patient.

### Bone Marrow Transplant Program (BMTP)

The BMTP, which we administer, provides financial assistance to cover the cost
of bringing an international donor or their HPCs to Australia for
transplantation.

The assistance aims to cover costs outside Medicare arrangements.

We fund the [ABMDR](http://www.abmdr.org.au/) to:

  * maintain the national donor registry
  * coordinate national and international registry searches for a matching donor or cord blood unit for the treatment of patients.
  * ensure umbilical cord blood units are stored and managed appropriately.

The [ABMDR](http://www.abmdr.org.au/) has information on who is eligible to be
a donor and how to become one. They also have information for patients on how
to [search for a donor](https://www.abmdr.org.au/searching-for-a-donor/).

## Apply for the program

### Apply for the BMTP

The treating hospital must submit applications for assistance under the BMTP
on the patient’s behalf. To be eligible for assistance, patients must meet a
set of criteria, including that:

  * the patient is a permanent resident of Australia
  * the patient has a current Medicare card
  * a suitable donor is not available in Australia
  * there must be realistic prospect of success
  * the treatment is expected to be life extending
  * the treatment must be beyond the experimental stage and be an accepted treatment method for their condition.

Access the BMTP [guidelines](/resources/publications/bone-marrow-transplant-
program-bmtp-guidelines "Bone Marrow Transplant Program \(BMTP\) guidelines")
and [application for funding](/resources/publications/bone-marrow-transplant-
program-bmtp-application-for-funding "Bone Marrow Transplant Program \(BMTP\)
application for funding").

## Related information

Find [a list of medical conditions](https://www.abmdr.org.au/patients/bone-
marrow-transplantation/) for which HPC transplantation is a supported
treatment option.

[Review of the HPC sector – final report](/resources/publications/review-of-
the-hpc-sector-final-report-2018 "Review of the HPC sector – final report
2018")

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell Program contact ](/contacts/haemopoietic-
progenitor-cell-program-contact?language=en)

Contact us for more information about the Haemopoietic Progenitor Cell
Program.

[Bone.Marrow.Transplant.Program@health.gov.au](mailto:Bone.Marrow.Transplant.Program@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

3 November 2021

Tags:

  * [Blood and blood products](/topics/blood-and-blood-products)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

