Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)
  4. [Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)

[Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications)

# Distribution Priority Area

The Distribution Priority Area (DPA) classification identifies locations in
Australia with a shortage of medical practitioners. International medical
graduates work in a DPA to be eligible for Medicare. Read about the DPA
classification and learn how to find locations classified as DPA.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Distribution Priority Area&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Distribution Priority Area&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa)

Loading...

On this page

**The DPA was updated on 21 July 2022. The Health locator tool reflects
updates to DPA including recent exceptional circumstances outcomes. This
update will be reflected under[Changes to
DPA](https://health.govcms.gov.au/health-topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications/dpa#changes-in-dpa).**

## About the DPA classification

The DPA classification system identifies areas experiencing lower levels of GP
services, compared with a benchmark of GP services. A range of initiatives
aimed at increasing the supply of doctors are then implemented in these areas.
Learn more about how we use DPA.

### **What’s new in 2022**

The Government committed to increasing the supply of General Practitioners
(GPs) in outer suburban areas and regions. From 21 July 2022:

  * All areas classified as MM2 under the Modified Monash Model (MMM) classification system will now be automatically classified as DPA.
  * All catchments classified as DPA through an exceptional circumstances review in 2021-22 will have their classification extended for 12 months until 30 June 2023.
  * A number of additional catchments in MM1 outer metropolitan areas identified by Government will also be classified as DPA.

## How DPA classifications are determined

The DPA classification system’s methodology takes into account Medicare
billings by gender and age demographics, and the socio-economic status of
patients living in an area, along with the remoteness of the area through the
[Modified Monash Model](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/rural-health-
workforce/classifications/mmm) (MMM) geographical classification system. DPA
is assessed for more than 800 GP catchment areas.

### Assessments

All areas are assessed for GP services access using the DPA. This is
calculated by:

  * the level of Medicare billed GP services for the population (for the latest calendar year).
  * DPA for each GP catchment is determined based on the composition of their communities, considering their demographics, including their age, gender and Socio-Economic Indexes for Areas (SEIFA), using the latest available data.
  * if the actual billing level is lower than the relevant benchmark the area is given DPA status.

The DPA system applies the following automatic rules to take into account the
location of the catchment area:

  * areas classified as MM 2 – 7 under the MMM are automatically classified DPA.
  * MM 1 inner metropolitan areas are automatically classified non-DPA.
  * the Northern Territory is automatically classified as DPA.

Other areas are listed as DPA/not DPA. With these automatic rules applied, DPA
applies to MM1 outer metropolitan areas for specific Australian Government
programs.

### Benchmarks

Each GP catchment has two benchmarks – one for [International Medical
Graduates](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/doctorconnect/for-employers-of-international-medical-graduates)
(IMGs) and another for [Bonded Medical
Places](https://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-
st-bmp) (BMP) participants.

The benchmarks are based on a:

  * Modified Monash Model (MMM) 2 average of access to GP services for IMGs.
  * national average of access to GP services for BMP.

### GP catchments

The DPA uses 827 non overlapping geographical GP catchment areas. These were
developed to provide a more accurate picture of where patients access their
health services. The creation of the GP catchments include:

  * patient flows using MBS patient and provider data over a five-year period
  * population demographics, e.g. population size and distribution
  * GP workforce, e.g. location and number of GPs
  * GP infrastructure, e.g. location and number of practices
  * accessibility, e.g. catchment size, travel distance and road networks
  * topography, e.g. mountain ranges, national parks, water bodies, islands
  * recognition of other boundaries, e.g. state and territory borders, local government areas.

### Data

The DPA uses the latest available data. The DPA was most recently updated on
21 July 2022 and uses:

  * MBS calendar year 2021 patient billing for GP services
  * population statistics from the ABS 2020-21 Estimated Residential Population (ERP).

The ERP data is at Statistical Area (SA) 1 level by gender group and in 1-year
age blocks. This information provided by the ABS is more granular than is
publicly available.

## Annual update of DPA (for GPs)

The DPA is updated each year. The DPA classification of an area can change
when there has been a significant shift in access to health care since the
previous annual update. This might be due to changes in the workforce, or in
the size or makeup of the population.

Removal of DPA from an area signals that there has been a positive increase in
GP services access for patients in that GP catchment.

To provide practices and communities with greater transparency we publish, for
each GP catchment the:

  * DPA classification
  * level of variance above and below the DPA benchmark.

This will help you understand service access levels as they compare with
benchmarks and other areas. The higher an area is above the benchmark, the
greater the access to GP services for that population.

## Changes in DPA

View the assessment of [each GP catchment](/resources/publications/dpa-
classifications-for-gps-2022 "DPA classifications for GPs 2022") which also
shows the catchments that had a change in DPA classification as part of the
latest annual update.

If an area loses DPA, doctors who hold an existing exemption under section
19AB of the [Health Insurance Act
1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2021C00231) can continue to
practise at their location provided they continue to meet the conditions of
their exemption.

In addition, doctors already in employment negotiations with a practice prior
to DPA changes will still be eligible for an exemption if they provide
documentary evidence of this with their application.

Practices unable to employ restricted medical practitioners can still employ
Australian trained doctors or doctors not subject to s19AB.

Read about [more about section 19AB](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do/19ab).

## How we use DPA

There are two main programs that the DPA assessment is important for in
2022-23. Medical practices in an area classified as DPA can access a broader
recruitment pool of GP doctors.

DPA status is used as part of the [section 19AB
provisions](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/doctors-and-
specialists/what-we-do/19ab) within the Health Insurance Act 1973 which
targets International Medical Graduates and Foreign Graduates of Accredited
Medical Schools (FGAMS) to rural areas by providing these doctors with access
to Medicare in these areas only.

The Bonded Medical Program (BMP) also uses the DPA to identify where program
participants can work when returning their service obligations and access the
Medicare Benefits Schedule. Practices located in a DPA location can employ
these doctors.

Note: there are also a range of Australian Government incentives for doctors
seeking to work in regional and rural areas.

![Incentives and support for GPs and general practices in MM
locations](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2022/02/incentives-
and-support-for-gps-and-general-practices-in-mm-locations.jpg?itok=Oz3vifyK)

###  [Incentives and support for GPs and general practices in MM locations
](/resources/collections/incentives-and-support-for-gps-and-general-practices-
in-mm-locations?language=en)

This collection contains the Modified Monash (MM) categories MM 1 to MM 7 fact
sheets.

## Exceptional circumstances reviews

You can request a review of a GP catchment’s DPA if you feel that there are
exceptional circumstances, since the last DPA update, that have impacted on
the level of GP services across the local area.

Any request to review a DPA classification will consider the level of GP
services experienced across the catchment. If approved, medical practices in
the GP catchment area can access several workforce programs, until the next
scheduled DPA review.

### Who can request a review?

Medical Practices can apply for a DPA exceptional circumstance review after
consulting with their local Rural Workforce Agency. Once the application has
been completed, the Rural Workforce Agency will submit the application to the
Department on behalf of the practice.

Note that MM 1 inner-metro locations – such as major Australian cities – are
not eligible for a review. MM 2 to 7 areas are automatically DPA.

Enter your address to check your area’s geographical classification on the
[Health Workforce Locator](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-
tools/health-workforce-locator) map.

If you would like to submit a request for an exceptional circumstances review,
contact the [Rural Workforce Agency](https://www.health.gov.au/contacts/rural-
health-workforce-australia-rhwa-contact) (RWA) in your state or territory.

### How we consider review requests

Once an application is submitted to the Department of Health and Ageing by the
Rural Workforce Agency, an assessment is undertaken. Further information may
also be sought from the Rural Workforce Agency or Primary Health Network as to
the workforce situation in the catchment.

The [Distribution Working Group](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-
groups/distribution-working-group) (DWG) analyses the application, agency
information and a range of GP related data related to health workforce
distribution and provides independent advice to the Australian Government. The
Minister with responsibility for rural health decides the outcome of the
assessment.

### Exceptional circumstances framework

The consideration of applications for a review of the DPA classification of an
area will take into account the following principles.

#### Changes to health services, workforce, or health syste

When a recent unexpected large change to the health workforce has resulted in
a substantial decrease in health services to the community across the GP
catchment.

#### Patient demographics or changes

When areas have experienced a significant recent shift in patient demographics
that has resulted in a demand for higher levels of GP services. The assessment
also considers changes in an area’s:

  * socio-economic status
  * proportion of senior people
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander population.

#### Absence of services

This applies when areas have experienced recent and demonstrated difficulties
in recruiting or retaining doctors.

### Outcomes of DPA exceptional circumstances assessments

The outcomes, including a summary of the assessment, to ensure transparency
are published online.

We update the [Health Workforce
Locator](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/health-workforce-
locator) map frequently to incorporate these changes.

[See DPA exceptional circumstances review outcome
summaries](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/distribution-
working-group#exceptional-circumstances-reviews-and-outcomes)

## 2021 Review of the DPA Classification System

In late 2021, a wide-ranging and thorough review of the DPA mechanism was
completed. The review included evaluating the DPA’s effectiveness in
identifying areas of Australia experiencing GP service shortages relative to
the needs of the community.

The report made eight recommendations to improve the accuracy and efficiency
of the DPA mechanism to better achieve the goal of equitable access to GP
services for all Australians, no matter where they live.

On 30 March 2022, the Government published the Review of the Distribution
Priority Area (DPA) Classification report and the Government response to the
review. The DPA was introduced in 2019 to replace the previously used
Districts of Workforce Shortage for general practice system.

A copy of the report and the Government’s response to the review is available
[online](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/review-of-the-dpa-
classification-system).

## How DPA is different to other classifications

DPA shows the GP services of a GP catchment compared to a benchmark.

[District of Workforce Shortage](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws) (DWS) shows the number of
non-GP specialists compared to the population of an area.

The [Modified Monash Model](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/rural-
health-workforce/classifications/mmm) shows the remoteness of a location.

## How to find locations classified DPA

To see areas classified DPA, search the [Health Workforce
Locator](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/health-workforce-
locator).

Last updated:

8 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

  * [About Australia's rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce/about)
  * [How we support](/topics/rural-health-workforce/how-we-support)
  * [Stronger Rural Health Strategy](/topics/rural-health-workforce/stronger-rural-health-strategy)
  * [Health workforce classifications](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications)
    * [Distribution Priority Areas (DPAs)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa)
    * [Request a review of a DPA classification](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dpa/request-review)
    * [District of Workforce Shortage](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/dws)
    * [Modified Monash Model (MMM)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/mmm)
    * [Area of Need (AoN)](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/aon)
    * [ASGS Remoteness Areas](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgs-ra)
    * [ASGC Remoteness Area](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/asgc-ra)
    * [Rural, Remote and Metropolitan Areas](/topics/rural-health-workforce/classifications/rrma)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/rural-health-workforce/programs)
  * [News](/topics/rural-health-workforce/rural-health-workforce-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/rural-health-workforce/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/rural-health-workforce/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

