Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# DoctorConnect

DoctorConnect provides information to international medical graduates and
their employers. It aims to help international medical graduates understand
the steps required to work as a doctor in Australia, where they can work and
restrictions on billing patients under Medicare.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=DoctorConnect&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/doctorconnect?utm_source=doctorconnect.gov.au&utm_medium=redirect&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/doctorconnect?utm_source=doctorconnect.gov.au&utm_medium=redirect&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=DoctorConnect&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/doctorconnect?utm_source=doctorconnect.gov.au&utm_medium=redirect&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)

Loading...

###  [ Learn how to work as a doctor in Australia ](/our-
work/doctorconnect/about-working-in-australia)

Discover what you need to do before you can get a job, where you can work and
what services you can charge for.

###  [ Search the Health Workforce Locator ](/resources/apps-and-tools/health-
workforce-locator)

Find out what areas of Australia need more doctors by searching the Health
Workforce Locator.

###  [ Get help with finding a job ](/our-work/doctorconnect/how-to-practise-
medicine-in-australia/finding-a-job)

Learn how to find, secure and start a job as a doctor in Australia.

###  [ Learn about Medicare and billing restrictions ](/our-
work/doctorconnect/about-working-in-australia/medicare-billing-restrictions-
for-international-medical-graduates)

Find out how Australia’s health system works, what Medicare is and what
restrictions there are on billing patients.

[View all DoctorConnect information](/our-work/doctorconnect/about-working-in-
australia)

![DoctorConnect
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/doctorconnect.png?itok=NvC3qa_J)

## Health Workforce Locator

Use our workforce locator map to check the geographical classification of any
location in Australia. The map can tell you if a location is classified as
city, rural or remote. It identifies areas that need more doctors.

[Use the locator](/node/6124)

![Doctor Connect news
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/images/news/2021/12/doctor_connect_news_image.jpeg?itok=_klitX0D)

## Distribution Priority Area (DPA) update

Changes to the Distribution Priority Area (DPA) classification apply from 1
January 2022.

[Find out more](/news/distribution-priority-area-dpa-update)

## Browse DoctorConnect for

###  [ International medical graduates ](/our-work/doctorconnect/about-
working-in-australia)

Learn what you need to do to work in Australia, where you can work and what
restrictions there are on billing patients.

###  [ Employers of international medical graduates ](/our-
work/doctorconnect/for-employers-of-international-medical-graduates)

Discover how you can sponsor, hire and support an international medical
graduate.

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![COVID-19 vaccine rollout update – 26 May
2023](/sites/default/files/2023-05/covid-19-vaccine-rollout-
update-26-may-2023.png)

### [COVID-19 vaccine rollout update – 26 May 2023
](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccine-rollout-
update-26-may-2023?language=en)

26 May 2023

Presentation

This presentation, delivered on 26 May 2023, contains an update to Australia's
COVID-19 vaccine rollout.

![Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) common operating picture – 26 May
2023](/sites/default/files/2023-05/coronavirus-covid-19-common-operating-
picture-26-may-2023.jpg)

### [Coronavirus (COVID-19) common operating picture – 26 May 2023
](/resources/publications/coronavirus-covid-19-common-operating-
picture-26-may-2023?language=en)

26 May 2023

Infographic

This infographic issued on 26 May 2023 provides a weekly traffic light report
of the coronavirus (COVID-19) situation across Australia.

![Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review – Reference committee
meeting agenda – 22 May 2023](/sites/default/files/2023-05/health-technology-
assessment-policy-and-methods-review-reference-committee-meeting-
agenda-22-may-2023.png)

### [Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review – Reference
committee meeting agenda – 22 May 2023 ](/resources/publications/health-
technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review-reference-committee-meeting-
agenda-22-may-2023?language=en)

26 May 2023

Agenda

Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review Reference Committee
agenda for the 10th meeting on 22 May 2023.

![COVIDSAFE](/sites/default/files/2023-05/covid-19-outbreaks-in-australian-
residential-aged-care-facilities-26-may-2023.jpg)

### [COVID-19 outbreaks in Australian residential aged care facilities – 26
May 2023 ](/resources/publications/covid-19-outbreaks-in-australian-
residential-aged-care-facilities-26-may-2023?language=en)

26 May 2023

Report

This weekly report provides a snapshot of data on the impact of COVID-19 in
residential aged care facilities nationally. The report includes data on the
number of services impacted and number of staff and resident cases, as well as
workforce, testing and PPE provided to affected services.

[View more resources](/our-work/doctorconnect/doctorconnect-
resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

Last updated:

28 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

