Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  4. [Providing aged care services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services)

[Providing aged care services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services)

# Before providing aged care services

Information on what all providers need to do before providing aged care
services. Some aged care services have specific steps. These include applying
to be an approved provider, telling us about your services, publishing the
details of your service and understanding your responsibilities.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Before providing aged care services&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/before-providing-aged-care-services)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/before-providing-aged-care-services)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Before providing aged care services&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/before-providing-aged-care-services)

Loading...

On this page

## Providing specific services

Providers can deliver services under a range of Australian Government
programs.

Read more about [aged care service delivery](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-
care-services/service-delivery-for-aged-care "Service delivery for aged
care").

## Getting approval to provide services

You must become an approved provider to provide government-subsidised aged
care services.

Read more about [approved providers and how to
apply](https://www.agedcarequality.gov.au/providers/becoming-approved-aged-
care-provider) through the Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission.

## Registering to claim aged care payments

You need to [register for online
claiming](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/online-claiming-aged-care-
providers/register/register-aged-care-online-claiming) with Services
Australia.

This gives you access to:

  * claim [government payments](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/funding-for-aged-care-service-providers "Funding for aged care service providers")
  * submit other online forms
  * notify Services Australia of changes

## Getting set up on My Aged Care

[My Aged Care](https://www.myagedcare.gov.au/) is a single place to find out
about aged care for the public.

Senior Australians, their families, carers and representatives use My Aged
Care to navigate the aged care system.

Approved providers need to get set up on the My Aged Care service provider
portal. From there, you can:

  * manage information about the services you provide
  * manage referrals from My Aged Care contact centre staff assessors
  * update client records
  * request an assessor do a support plan review for a client
  * generate reports

Read more about [accessing and getting set up on My Aged Care](/our-work/my-
aged-care/using-my-aged-care/my-aged-care-for-service-providers "My Aged Care
for service providers").

## Check for valid approval

An Aged Care Assessment Team (ACAT) must approve a care recipient to go into
Australian Government-funded aged care, in:

  * [residential care](/our-work/residential-aged-care "Residential aged care")
  * [transition care](/node/8445) or [short-term restorative care](/our-work/short-term-restorative-care-strc-programme "Short-Term Restorative Care \(STRC\) Programme") (STRC)
  * residential [respite care](/our-work/residential-aged-care/managing-residential-aged-care-services/managing-residential-respite-care-allowances "Managing residential respite care")
  * [home care](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/about "About the Home Care Packages Program")

Care recipients entering flexible care other than transition care or STRC do
not need ACAT approval.

Check whether a person entering your care has valid approval through the
[Medicare Aged Care Online
Gateway](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/online-claiming-aged-care-
providers/register/register-aged-care-online-claiming).

### When to check for valid approval

You must check that a care recipient has current ACAT approval for the care
type and level you provide when they:

  * move from one service to another
  * change their care type
  * need a higher level of care
  * have a time limit on their approval
  * have a break in their care

You will not receive a subsidy for any day the care recipient does not have
ACAT approval.

### If the care recipient has no current approval

Refer a person or their representative to My Aged Care to [arrange a referral
for a new assessment](https://www.myagedcare.gov.au/assessment) if they
haven’t had one.

## Understand your responsibilities

As an approved provider, you have [certain responsibilities](/topics/aged-
care/providing-aged-care-services/responsibilities "Responsibilities of
approved aged care providers") to understand and meet.

These fall under the [Aged Care Act
1997](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2019C00294) and its principles.

Last updated:

22 January 2020

Tags:

  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [My Aged Care](/our-work/my-aged-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)

  * [Advice on aged care during COVID-19](/topics/aged-care/advice-on-aged-care-during-covid-19)
  * [About aged care](/topics/aged-care/about-aged-care)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Providing aged care services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services)
    * [News and announcements](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/newsletters-and-alerts-for-the-aged-care-sector)
    * [Before providing services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/before-providing-aged-care-services)
    * [Responsibilities of approved providers](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/responsibilities)
    * [Delivering quality services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/delivering-quality-aged-care-services)
    * [Service delivery](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/service-delivery-for-aged-care)
    * [Funding for service providers](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/funding-for-aged-care-service-providers)
    * [Charging fees for services](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/charging-fees-for-aged-care-services)
    * [Working in aged care](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/working-in-aged-care)
    * [Support for younger people](/topics/aged-care/providing-aged-care-services/support-for-younger-people)
  * [News](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Research and reporting](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-research-and-reporting)
  * [Resources](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/aged-care/aged-care-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

