Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  4. [About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about)

[About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-
and-digital-health/about)

# Healthcare Identifiers and the Healthcare Identifier Service

A healthcare identifier is a unique number that ensures healthcare providers
can accurately match records to the person they are treating. The Healthcare
Identifiers Service is a national system for identifying individuals,
healthcare providers and organisations, using a healthcare identifier.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Healthcare Identifiers and the Healthcare Identifier Service&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/healthcare-identifiers)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/healthcare-identifiers)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Healthcare Identifiers and the Healthcare Identifier Service&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/healthcare-identifiers)

Loading...

On this page

## About healthcare identifiers

Healthcare identifiers are unique numbers assigned to:

  * individuals
  * healthcare providers
  * organisations that provide health services.

## Healthcare Identifier Service

The Healthcare Identifiers Service (HI Service) allows healthcare providers to
view a person’s information by using a healthcare identifier to access My
Health Record.

The HI Service assigns and administers healthcare identifiers. The [Chief
Executive Medicare](https://www.directory.gov.au/portfolios/social-
services/chief-executive-medicare) oversees the HI Service.

## Purpose

Healthcare identifiers connect the right information with the right individual
at the point of care. This gives both health professionals and patients
confidence that they are using the correct information.

The HI Service:

  * improves safety for patients
  * increases efficiency for healthcare providers.

One of the users of healthcare identifiers is [My Health
Record](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/). The My Health Record system uses
healthcare identifiers because anyone receiving healthcare in Australia can be
assigned a healthcare identifier.

## Types

The HI Service has 3 types of healthcare identifiers.

### Individual Healthcare Identifier

An [Individual Healthcare
Identifier](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individual-healthcare-
identifiers) (IHI) is a unique 16-digit number used to identify an individual
for health care purposes. As part of the HI Service, every Australian resident
has a unique IHI.

IHIs provide a way for healthcare providers to match the right records to the
right person. This helps avoid medical mix-ups or a person’s information
appearing on another patient’s medical record. A healthcare identifier record
includes basic information about a person, such as their:

  * name
  * date of birth
  * gender.

It may also include a person’s:

  * address
  * Medicare number
  * Department of Veterans’ Affairs file number
  * aliases.

You already have an IHI if any of the following apply:

  * you have a Medicare card
  * you have a DVA card
  * you’re enrolled in Medicare.

If you don’t have an IHI, you can [apply for
one](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-get-individual-healthcare-
identifier). Once you have an IHI, you don’t need to do anything further.

### Healthcare Provider Identifier – Individual

A [Healthcare Provider Identifier –
Individual](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/healthcare-identifiers-
service-for-health-professionals) (HPI-I) is for healthcare professionals
involved in providing patient care.

### Healthcare Provider Identifier – Organisation

A [Healthcare Provider Identifier –
Organisation](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-apply-for-hi-
service-for-organisations) (HPI-O) for organisations that deliver health care
(such as hospitals or general practices).

## How to get a HPI-I or HPI-O

See [how to apply for a healthcare
identifier](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/apply-to-access-hi-service).

## Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project

Healthcare identifiers allow the secure exchange of health information for
things like My Health Record and [electronic prescribing](/our-
work/electronic-prescribing "Electronic prescribing"). However broad adoption
of the identifiers has been slow.

### Purpose of the project

The Healthcare Identifiers Framework Project aims to increase the use of
healthcare identifiers.

The main objective of the project is to:

  * ensure the HI Act and HI Service work in a modern healthcare environment
  * give regulatory support to deliver high-quality healthcare services
  * meet strategic, policy, program, and operational goals. 

We want to ensure the use of identifiers across:

  * health
  * aged care
  * disability care
  * allied health
  * other healthcare programs and services.

This will:

  * allow your health information to follow you from service to service ­ – for example, your GP to a specialist
  * make your Individual Healthcare Identifier the number most (or all) of your healthcare team use to identify you.

### Funding

The Australian Government is funding the project under the Health Delivery
Modernisation (HDM) program. This program will give new digital health
services and continue to modernise health payment systems.

### **Public consultation**

Between December 2022 and March 2023, the Healthcare Identifiers Framework
Project consulted with a broad range of stakeholders through a public
consultation. The consultation covered possible legislative amendments and
policy changes to the HI Act and HI Service to increase the use of Healthcare
Identifiers.

Stakeholders can view the public consultation through [Citizen
Space](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-health/healthcare-
identifiers-framework-project/).

We also held a series of webinars during this period to support the
consultation process on the following dates:

  * Thursday 15 December 2022
  * Wednesday 18 January 2023
  * Wednesday 8 February
  * Thursday 23 February 2023.

Learn more about the project and proposed legislation changes by [listening
our webinar recordings.](https://consultations.health.gov.au/digital-
health/healthcare-identifiers-framework-project/#related)

The project will continue to engage with stakeholders over the next 12 months
as we consider proposed changes to the HI Framework.

Contact us for enquiries by emailing
[HIFrameworkProject@Health.gov.au](mailto:HIFrameworkProject@Health.gov.au).

## **Data use, security and governance**

### **Use and storage**

Individuals via [My Health Record](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/) and
healthcare providers via various clinical systems, use healthcare identifiers
to ensure information is accurate and up to date. Healthcare identifier
information is stored in the [HI
Service](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/about-healthcare-identifier-
service), which is administered by Services Australia.

All healthcare identifier information is stored in strict compliance with
security and privacy controls (see below).

### **Governance**

The [Office of the Australian Information
Commissioner](https://www.oaic.gov.au/) (OAIC) is the independent regulator of
the privacy aspects of the [Healthcare Identifiers Act 2010
](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00492)(HI Act). It also
monitors the HI Service and handles complaints.

### **Security and privacy**

The HI Service protects individual privacy through legislation and technical
security and access controls.

The [Healthcare Identifiers Act
2010](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00492) specifies that
healthcare identifiers can be used for healthcare and related management
purposes, with penalties in place for misuse.

Find out more about:

  * [how authorised persons can access the HI Service](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/creating-or-updating-authorised-employees-register-healthcare-identifiers-hi-service?context=22876)
  * [healthcare identifiers and the HI Service](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/other-legislation/healthcare-identifiers)
  * The OIAC [Privacy guidance regarding Individual Healthcare Identifiers (IHIs) on COVID-19 digital vaccination certificates](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/guidance-and-advice/privacy-guidance-regarding-individual-healthcare-identifiers-ihis-on-covid-19-digital-vaccination-certificates).

## **Reviews**

At the end of each financial year, the HI service operator reports on its:

  * activities
  * finances
  * operations.

The Ministerial Council and the Minister for Health review the annual reports,
which are available from [Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/healthcare-identifiers-
service-annual-reports?context=22876).

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-default-icon.png)

###  [ Healthcare Identifier Service contact ](/contacts/healthcare-
identifier-service-contact?language=en)

The Healthcare Identifiers Service (HI Service) allows healthcare providers to
access a person’s information by using a healthcare identifier. If you have
any questions, contact the Healthcare Identifier Service team Monday to Friday
from 8.30 am to 5 pm AEST.

[healthcareidentifiers@servicesaustralia.gov.au](mailto:healthcareidentifiers@servicesaustralia.gov.au)

[1300 361 457](tel:1300 361 457)

Last updated:

10 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health)

  * [About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about)
    * [Healthcare identifiers](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/healthcare-identifiers)
    * [Electronic health records](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-health-records)
    * [Electronic prescriptions](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/electronic-prescriptions)
    * [Telehealth](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/telehealth)
  * [What we do](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/what-we-do)
  * [Health technology assessments (HTAs)](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments)
  * [News](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

