Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Assistant Minister McBride – interview on ABC Afternoon Briefing – 18 May
2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's interview with Greg
Jennett about the Program of Assistance for Survivors of Torture and Trauma,
Better Access, the psychology workforce and strengthening Medicare.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Assistant Minister McBride – interview on ABC Afternoon Briefing – 18 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-interview-on-abc-afternoon-briefing-18-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-interview-on-abc-afternoon-briefing-18-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Assistant Minister McBride – interview on ABC Afternoon Briefing – 18 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-interview-on-abc-afternoon-briefing-18-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

18 May 2023

Date published:

19 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** Emma McBride, great to have you back on Afternoon
Briefing. Last week's Budget included a package of more than $130 million over
4 years for mental health for refugees who've experienced trauma. How many
people that do you expect these services to cover?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Well, this program was established in
1995, and it's world recognised. It's a Program of Assistance for Survivors of
Torture and Trauma. We know that Australia has a strong history of settlement
of humanitarian entrants, and over time, we've settled more than 920,000
individuals and families. So expect that the program, that sort of the breadth
of the program, and how it works is that for when someone arrives in
Australia, it gives them wraparound support for their mental health and for
psychosocial support. including counselling, advocacy, and importantly, it
continues across their lifespan because sometimes the symptoms associated with
trauma might manifest when their child starts school, as their parents age,
and at different times in their lifespan. So this program will be able to
benefit as I said, thousands of individuals and families and communities in
the cities and also in regional parts of Australia.

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** And it's being provided by counsellors or services,
which are what? Well experienced with the particular forms of trauma that
present among refugees?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** That's right. It's so important that
this type of service is provided by specialists who have that experience and
expertise and to be able to tailor services for that individual or that family
and community. So this was first established in 1995, and there's – across the
different states and territories – there's state based offices, but then
branches and outreach to make sure that we've got that right, culturally safe,
tailored mental health support and services that are specific to that
humanitarian entrant and their family and their time of life.

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** Now I imagine that many refugees once they do arrive
in Australia have spent somewhat lengthy periods of time Emma McBride in
camps, overseas, waiting for that opportunity. Are they typically provided the
services before arrival in Australia?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** So this service starts as soon as
someone arrives in Australia and recognising that that pre-migration
experience is individual and complex, and what it does is it starts with that
very individualised and tailored response that's informed by trauma informed
response and very specific services. And importantly, it does then continue
across their lifespan, because as I mentioned, the trauma associated with
their migration, their pre-migration experience, is very individual and very
complex and needs that very specialised support and care.

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** And just explained what some of those traumas stem
from, is it war? Is it personal abuse? You know, what are the specialty areas
we're talking about here?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** So this trauma might be because somebody
comes from an area of conflict, it might be a particular abuse that they've
experienced, it could be psychological or physical. So, if there's quite a
breadth of responses that we need to make sure that it is tailored to that
individual, to their circumstances, and to the stage of life when it might
manifest.

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** As you say Emma, this is not a new program. Did it
fall in the Budget into that category of so called 'zombie measures' that
might not otherwise have been extended unless more funding had been plugged in
this year?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** This is a continuation of an existing
and well established service and one that we're very pleased to be able to
continue, and to expand and as part of the investment as well, there's money
towards having a sort of a status update on the mental health of multicultural
Australia, and also some more funding towards Embrace a suicide prevention
pilot working particularly in multicultural communities. So we're very, very
pleased to continue to support this really critical work and also to be able
to expand on it.

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** Can we step it out then Emma McBride to a discussion
about the more general Australian population? I think it's fair to say there's
been a little bit of criticism maybe at the margins about mental health
funding contained in the Budget. Certainly on this program we had spoken to
psychologists beforehand that wanted more. Have they expressed that directly
to you and what's been your response?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** So there's been an investment in his
budget of half a billion dollars directly into mental health, and particularly
to pick up your points about psychologists, we know that one of the biggest
challenges has been workforce, and in the Budget, we've invested $93.1 million
in that pipeline of psychologists to have 500 more a psychologist in that
postgraduate training, 500 more in their internship, and also invested in
supervisors – 2,000 supervisors will be able to be supported through the
Budget. This has been welcomed by the Australian Psychological Society and
other key stakeholders who are very keen for the government to invest in that
pipeline of workforce to make sure that we address those acute workforce
shortages and have a stronger pipeline of mental health workers, especially
from their perspective, psychologists, across all of Australia.

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** Well, I'm sure that it's valued but they had also
spoken beforehand, Emma, about distortions in demand caused by the reduction
from 20 Medicare-funded consultations down to 10. How do you think, that is
that most had filled their card already and we're now having to ration their
mental health care because of it, how do you think that's going to resolve
itself or stabilise in the system?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** We're working very closely with the
sector and in January, Minister Butler and myself held a forum that included
people with lived experience, clinicians, researchers and service providers to
really look at improving equity and access, because the report that the former
government commissioned the evaluation of the Better Access Initiative showed
that while people who could get into Better Access had good support and care,
fewer people were able to enter the system, and especially those most
vulnerable Australians, whether it was people from culturally and
linguistically diverse backgrounds, people living in more remote parts of
Australia, First Nations people, older Australians. So, we're continuing that
work with the sector because we want to make sure that wherever you live, you
can get that support and care that you need, and a big part of that in the
Budget was in a new consult for general practitioners, a level E consult,
which will mean that a general practitioner doing that first mental health
treatment plan, will be able to have an hour to spend with that individual so
that they can...

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** Sorry Emma, just on that, is that typically bulk
build?

**EMMA McBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** So what we have also done the same time,
it's tripled the bulk billing incentive, and when I visited the most regional
and remote parts of Australia since the Budget, what we've heard from general
practitioners is that now they believe that they can continue bulk billing, or
they'll be able to resume bulk billing if they were forced to stop because
they didn't have the right financial scaffolding in order to do it. So that
big investment in primary care in general practice is very welcomed for mental
health and suicide prevention.

**GREG JENNETT, HOST:** Interesting early feedback, Emma McBride. Thanks for
the update, and we'll talk again soon I'm sure.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Better Access initiative](/our-work/better-access-initiative)
  * [Program of Assistance for Survivors of Torture and Trauma](/our-work/program-of-assistance-for-survivors-of-torture-and-trauma)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

