Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Resources](/resources)
  3. [Audio](/resources/audio)

[Audio](/resources/audio)

# COVID-19 vaccination – Mary G interview with Mayor Elvie Sandow

In this radio interview, Mary G speaks with Elvie Sandow, the first female
Mayor of Cherbourg Shire Council in Queensland, asking questions about how the
community has responded to recent COVID-19 outbreaks, and how vaccination
rates across the community have helped.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=COVID-19 vaccination – Mary G interview with Mayor Elvie Sandow&url=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/audio/covid-19-vaccination-mary-g-interview-with-mayor-elvie-sandow)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/audio/covid-19-vaccination-mary-g-interview-with-mayor-elvie-sandow)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=COVID-19 vaccination – Mary G interview with Mayor Elvie Sandow&body=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/audio/covid-19-vaccination-mary-g-interview-with-mayor-elvie-sandow)

Loading...

![COVID-19 vaccination – Mary G interviews Mayor Elvie
Sandow](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_teaser/public/images/audio/2022/05/covid-19-vaccination-
mary-g-interview-with-mayor-elvie-sandow.png?itok=A-df5YfR)

Scroll down to access downloads and media.

## Downloads

Read transcript

MARY G: Hello everybody, it's me Mary G mind you, and you wouldn't believe but
I’m talking to the first female mayor of Cherbourg mind you. Elvie Sandow is
the Mayor of Cherbourg Shire Council. The Queensland community of Cherbourg
was hit by a COVID outbreak in January this year. The community response to
limiting the spread of the virus has led to other communities seeking advice
from the council as to how best to respond to an outbreak. I'm joined now by
Mayor Elvie Sandow to share the experience of a community to the threat of
COVID. Hello, darling.

ELVIE SANDOW: Hello, how are you

MARY G: I'm good. Can you tell us a little bit about Cherbourg? How many
residents and where it's located?

ELVIE SANDOW: We're located three hours southeast Queensland. We're three
hours from Brisbane. We’re the closest Aboriginal community to Brisbane and
yeah, population it goes up and down. 1600, I think it is at the moment, but
it goes up and down. Yeah. Because you know our mob, they move around.

MARY G: And and before we hear about the January outbreak, where are you at
today with the number of cases of COVID in the community?

ELVIE SANDOW: Well, I haven't been updated because I've actually been on the
road for two weeks. I was in Goodiwndi last week, I'm actually up in Cairns
now. So, I haven't got much of an update. At the moment. Sorry. Yeah. But I
know, from talking to some of my mob from home, there was a bit of a spike. I
know there was about 80 cases, the last time I heard, and it sort of goes up
and down. And we sort of expected that because winter is just around the
corner.

MARY G: Must be scary times.

ELVIE SANDOW: I think I think January was more scarier than now because, you
know, we did we were learning to live with COVID now because we know it's not
going away anywhere.

MARY G: And that's a good thing about knowing what to expect, you know.

ELVIE SANDOW: Exactly, yeah. And you know, I think our priority at the moment
is to try and encourage more children to be vaccinated.

MARY G: That's the key. Yep, protect the kids as well. And Queensland was free
of COVID-19 for a very long time. What have you done as a council and
community to prepare for an outbreak?

ELVIE SANDOW: Well, I think our key points was to get that message out there,
education, you know, to our people, and to prepare them and also to prepare
our elders too. And our little gundoos, in saying that too, yeah.

MARY G: Yeah, well, that's the most important thing. And who was involved in
the planning?

ELVIE SANDOW: Was my Council, my CEO, and also Darling Downs Health I take, I
take my hat off to them guys. I think if it wasn't for them, guys, you know,
Risha Lacey, Anna Morford. If it wasn't for them, Dr. Katie [inaudible] If it
wasn't for them, we wouldn't be where we are today.

MARY G: Fantastic. It's a community thing, isn't it?

ELVIE SANDOW: It is a community thing. You know, if, if you want something to
happen, happen, you have to be there to make it happen. You've got to do it
yourself ay then you know that it's going to be done.

MARY G: Yeah, that's true. And what was the take up rate of COVID-19
vaccination last year? And were people supportive?

ELVIE SANDOW: Oh, not at first, you know, we still got some anti vax people in
our community. But a majority of people started to come around. Because of
the, you know, I think the education that we got out there, and, you know, we
got the doctor to come and actually talk to ‘em one on one and explain things
and answer their questions. You know, because a lot of our mob have chronic
illnesses, and, you know, they just didn't want another illness added added to
their sickness, you know?

MARY G: Yeah. And what are the current vaccination rates now be?

ELVIE SANDOW: Oh well, our rates are very high eh? Our vaccine rates it’s up
high, which is really good. You know we got a bit frustrated because our mob
done change their address through Medicare and stuff, so, you know, I believe
a lot, a lot of people they are vaccinated because, you know, we haven't had
much been hospitalized, which is a good thing.

MARY G: Fantastic. And I look at your stats there, in Cherbourg. As we speak,
the latest stats is from 23rd of April, 24th, 25th. You got about 261 cases.

ELVIE SANDOW: We sort of expected that it was going to go up and and you know,
the health profession said: you know, you sort of got to prepare, because
winters around the corner and it's flu, it is flu time, flu season so yeah we
sort of expected and, and a lot of our mob know what to do now, which is which
is a good thing.

MARY G: Now. Elvie you're the first female Mayor of Cherbourg. Can you touch
base on how yourself and other women have been supporting the community over
the past two years?

ELVIE SANDOW: Yeah, well, there's another, you know, I am the very first
female Mayor ever, you know, a lot of people say to me, that's a big thing, I
don’t let my head get too big because I think I've got a job to do. And l get
a lot of support from many of my women and within my community. Yeah.

MARY G: And of all the things that your community did, what has the most
impact on limiting transmission of the virus?

ELVIE SANDOW: Well, I think it's just getting out there and giving them giving
them that education and letting them know, and just communicating with them on
a very, very daily basis, you know?

MARY G: And what, what sort of impacts has COVID had on individuals and
families in Cherbourg? Do you know anyone personally affected?

ELVIE SANDOW: It has affected a lot of families, mentally, physically, you
know, it is affected their mental states, too. So, you know, we've got that
wraparound support, and we still have that wraparound support for our mob,

MARY G: And how did they deal with it?

ELVIE SANDOW: I think they dealt with it in their own way. And then just even
getting there talking to one another, and just leaning on one another for that
support, you know?

MARY G: And what else did you do to keep more vulnerable people safe?

ELVIE SANDOW: we just provided what we can for our people, whether it was
food, medication, any sort of help, so that our people didn't have to really
stress and worry.

MARY G: Fantastic. And COVID is not going to go away, are new measures being
adopted to protect the community against another wave of COVID, in the future?

ELVIE SANDOW: Yeah, yeah, we've got, we've got to put some measures in place.
I think, you know, I really think that people know what they got to do. You
know, we've been down that track before. And, you know, our community knows
COVID is not going anywhere. And we just got to live with it, eh?

MARY G: And how does the community feel about the ongoing vaccination program
now?

ELVIE SANDOW: I think they're very supportive of it now. It's just that we've
got, you know, it’s very slow with the children. But I believe we'll get there
one day. Yeah.

MARY G: Yes. It's just about the messaging, isn't it?

ELVIE SANDOW: Yes. Just about the messaging. And, you know, getting the family
to be engaged.

MARY G: And finally, you must feel very proud of the way Cherbourg pulled
together. What advice can you give to other Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander communities who might be facing the same challenges and listening to
this interview?

ELVIE SANDOW: Oh, just, you know, my advice is just communicate. Just
communicate, be honest, and just be there when, when they want help, and
always offer that support, yeah.

MARY G: Yeah, fantastic. Is anything else you'd like to add my dear?

ELVIE SANDOW: No, you know, I'm hoping, you know, with this second spike, that
we can get over it and move on, and, you know, get back to our normal lives.
Because, you know, we've put up with COVID for the last two years. And you
know, what a time to come in as new Council. And the first thing you have to
deal with is a worldwide pandemic. So, you know, someone said to me, if you
can get over that, you can get over anything,

MARY G: And that's great words coming from you, my dear. (Yep). Elvie Sandow
Mayor of the Cherbourg Shire Council. Mind you. Thank you very much, my dear.
And stay well and stay safe.

MARY G: Thank you. Bye.

ELVIE SANDOW: Bye.

Publication date:

11 May 2022

Last updated:

20 May 2022

Duration:

8:18

Audience:

General public

Part of a collection:

[COVID-19 vaccination – Mary G asks the hard questions about COVID-19 and
vaccines](/resources/collections/covid-19-vaccination-mary-g-asks-the-hard-
questions-about-covid-19-and-vaccines)

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19](/diseases/covid-19)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

