Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)

[Doing a bowel screening test](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-
program/doing-a-bowel-screening-test)

# How bowel screening works

Taking part in the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program is free and easy.
If detected early, bowel cancer can be successfully treated in more than 90%
of cases. Do the free home test. It could save your life.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=How bowel screening works&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/how-bowel-screening-works)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/how-bowel-screening-works)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=How bowel screening works&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/how-bowel-screening-works)

Loading...

On this page

Has your test kit expired or have you misplaced it?

[Request a new kit](https://www.ncsr.gov.au/information-for-
participants/order-a-replacement-bowel-test-kit/)

These easy steps help reduce your risk of bowel cancer.

## 1\. Pre-invitation

After turning 50, you will get a
[letter](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-bowel-
cancer-screening-program-pre-invite-letter "National Bowel Cancer Screening
Program – Pre-invite letter") in the mail telling you about the National Bowel
Cancer Screening Program, and why it’s important to screen. The letter will
also let you know that you will be getting your free bowel screening kit in
the mail soon.

We get your address from Medicare. So it’s important to make sure your address
is up to date. You can update your address on the [Services Australia
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-you-update-your-name-date-
birth-or-gender-for-medicare?context=60092), or by calling Medicare on [132
011](tel:%20132011).

## 2\. Get your test kit in the mail or from your doctor

Next, you get your free test kit in the mail. This may arrive several weeks
after your pre-invite letter, depending on where you live.

You can also ask your doctor about getting the free bowel screening kit.

A [hot zone policy](/resources/publications/national-bowel-cancer-screening-
program-policy-framework "National Bowel Cancer Screening Program – Policy
Framework") means people who live in hotter parts of Australia are mailed kits
in the cooler months. This is because exposure of your collected samples to
high heat can impact test results.

If you are due to screen but don’t have your kit because of the hot zone
policy, your doctor can override it if they think it will be beneficial. You
must be able to keep your samples cool by following the [test
instructions](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-bowel-
cancer-screening-program-home-test-kit-instructions). Talk with your doctor
who can:

  1. request a kit to be mailed to you by contacting the [National Cancer Screening Register](https://www.ncsr.gov.au/)
  2. give you a kit directly if they are taking part in the [alternative access to kits model](https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/alternative-access-to-bowel-screening-kits-guide). 

### About the test kit

The program sends out Eiken OC-Sensor kits. These are used widely in Australia
and overseas. This is what the test kit packaging looks like:

![National Bowel Cancer Screening test
kit](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-01/fobt_envelope_front_0.jpg?itok=ykUxf6fE)

## 3\. Do the test and send it back

You just need to collect 2 tiny samples from 2 different poos. Then return
them in the reply-paid envelope to the pathology lab.

The kit comes with instructions on [how to do the bowel screening
test](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-bowel-cancer-
screening-program-home-test-kit-instructions). You can also watch a video on
[how to do the test](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/videos/using-the-
bowel-screening-home-test-kit) or read test kit [instructions in 22
languages](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/translated/national-bowel-
cancer-screening-program-home-test-kit-instructions-other-languages).

If you need help using the kit, call the [Bowel Screening Test Kit
Helpline](https://www.health.gov.au/contacts/bowel-screening-test-kit-helpline
"Bowel Screening Test Kit Helpline") on [1800 930 998](tel:1800930998).

## 4\. Get your result

You and your doctor receive the result within 4 weeks. Your results are also
sent to:

  * the [National Cancer Screening Register](https://www.ncsr.gov.au/)
  * [My Health Record](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/) (unless you ticked the box on your participant details form to tell us you don’t want this to happen, or you have opted out of My Health Record).

Your result will be either:

  * positive
  * negative
  * inconclusive.

A positive result is not a cancer diagnosis. But you should see your doctor as
soon as possible. Read more about [understanding your
results](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/national-bowel-
cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/understanding-your-
bowel-screening-test-results).

## 5\. Repeat every 2 years

You will automatically get another free test kit in the mail every 2 years
from when you completed your last test until you turn 74.

It’s important you do the test and send it back every time. This is because
cancer can grow slowly and your body changes over time. So you need to keep
screening regularly.

If you have any concerns about bowel cancer screening after you turn 74, see
your doctor to discuss your screening options.

## Screening again after a colonoscopy

If you got a positive result from your last test, your doctor may have
referred you for a colonoscopy.

**If polyps or other growths ARE found** during a colonoscopy, your doctor
will advise on further testing and treatment and whether continuing bowel
cancer screening is right for you.

**If NO polyps or other growths are found** during a colonoscopy, you will be
notified that you can skip your next screening round and instead start
screening again 4 years after your last colonoscopy.

This ‘skip round’ is based on current clinical advice. We will send you a
letter about this skip round 2 years after you did your last test as a
reminder. At this time, you can ask for a kit to be sent to you if you prefer
not to skip a screening round.

## **Request a replacement kit**

If you lose your kit or it expires you can get a replacement kit from the
National Cancer Screening Register by:

  * [completing an online a request](https://www.ncsr.gov.au/information-for-participants/order-a-replacement-bowel-test-kit/)
  * calling [1800 627 701](tel:1800627701).

The new kit should arrive 4 to 10 weeks after your request.

## Manage your participation

[You can manage your participation](https://www.ncsr.gov.au/information-for-
participants/manage-your-participation/) in the National Bowel Cancer
Screening Program including:

  * updating your address

  * nominating a healthcare provider

  * nominating a pseudonym (fake name)

  * adding a personal representative

  * deferring your next screening date

  * opting out or back in again.

### Opt out

We know cancer screening saves lives. If you don’t want to be part of the
National Bowel Cancer Screening Program, you can opt out. This means you won’t
get any more reminders or free test kits in the mail.

You can opt out for any reason. This includes if:

  * you already have regular screening or regular colonoscopies
  * your doctor has advised you not to take part
  * you are having treatment for cancer.

### Defer

If you want to take a break from the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program,
you can defer your screening date.

Reasons for deferring may include that you:

  * have recently done a bowel screening test or had a colonoscopy
  * have had advice from your doctor
  * are unwell
  * are travelling.

![National Cancer Screening Register
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/national-
cancer-screening-register-contact.png?itok=u5Fh2Xk_)

###  [ National Cancer Screening Register contact ](/contacts/national-cancer-
screening-register-contact?language=en)

Contact the National Cancer Screening Register to update your contact details
or ask questions about the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program or National
Cervical Screening Program. You can call between 8 am and 6 pm Monday to
Friday, except national public holidays, from anywhere in Australia.

[1800 627 701](tel:1800 627 701)

[1800 627 702](tel:1800 627 702)

[Contact the National Cancer Screening
Register](https://ncsr.gov.au/content/ncsr/en/contact-us.html)

Last updated:

28 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-
screening-program)

  * [About the program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/about-the-national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)
  * [Doing a bowel screening test](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/doing-a-bowel-screening-test)
    * [Who should do the bowel screening test](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/who-should-do-the-bowel-screening-test)
    * [How bowel screening works](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/how-bowel-screening-works)
    * [How to do the bowel screening test](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/how-to-do-the-bowel-screening-test)
    * [Understanding your results](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/understanding-your-bowel-screening-test-results)
    * [Bowel screening during COVID-19](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/getting-a-bowel-screening-test/bowel-screening-during-covid-19)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous)
  * [Your stories](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/your-stories-about-bowel-cancer-screening)
  * [Managing bowel screening for participants](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/managing-bowel-screening-for-participants)
  * [Alternative access to kits](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/alternative-access-to-bowel-screening-kits-for-healthcare-providers)
  * [Resources](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/bowel-cancer-screening-resources)
  * [News](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program-news)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/bowel-cancer-screening-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

