Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Assistant Minister McBride – press conference in Kurri Kurri – 17 May 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's press conference on
Strengthening Medicare and cheaper medicines

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Assistant Minister McBride – press conference in Kurri Kurri – 17 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-press-conference-in-kurri-kurri-17-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-press-conference-in-kurri-kurri-17-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Assistant Minister McBride – press conference in Kurri Kurri – 17 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-press-conference-in-kurri-kurri-17-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

17 May 2023

Date published:

17 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**DAN REPACHOLI, MEMBER FOR HUNTER** We're here with our wonderful Assistant
Health Minister Emma McBride to chat about some great things that came out in
the budget last week. We have some really good announcements here, we're going
to let everyone know. So I'm going to pass over to Emma to have a word and
just really showcase what we have given in this Budget.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Thanks, Dan. I'm so pleased to be at
Weston Medical Centre here in the Hunter. What we've seen after a decade of
neglect is plummeting bulk billing rates. We know the further you live outside
of a major city, the worse your health outcomes are likely to be, and a big
part of that is timely access to affordable care close to home. So in the
Budget, we have announced $3.5 billion to triple the bulk billing incentive,
which will mean that almost 11 million Australians will benefit from being
able to have bulk bill care, 5 million children and under 16, older
Australians, health care card holders, it will mean the practices like this
one, Weston Medical Centre, will be able to continue bulk billing the most
vulnerable Australians. This is the biggest investment in Medicare in its
history. And we know that from having spoken to doctors right around
Australia, that this is a type of investment that was needed to make general
practice more viable to make sure that every Australian whatever their
postcode, or whatever their bank balance could get affordable care, close to
home. And I'm so pleased to be here with a Member of Hunter Dan Repacholi, who
has been such a strong advocate for health care, right here in the Hunter. Dan
knows exactly what it means for people to be able to get that health care,
close to home and affordably so they're not ending up waiting hours in the
emergency department and clogging up our already overstretched hospital
system. As I said, this is the biggest investment in the history of Medicare,
it's one that we know will make a really big difference, particularly to
people living outside of our major cities. What this will mean for a typical
level B consult will be an investment by the government of $74.75. That's the
rebate plus the tripling of the bulk billing incentive. This will make a real
difference to the viability of practices and I've heard from doctors in the
Illawarra, just earlier this week that have said, it's first time that they
felt optimistic about general practice. We value general practice, we're
investing in primary care to make sure that every Australian wherever they
live, particularly those outside of major cities can get the health care that
they need, and they deserve. And I'm so pleased that we have Dr. Yasas here,
who's going to be able to tell us a little bit more about what this means for
the type of quality care that they provide to people right here at Weston
Medical Centre.

**YASAS SAMARASINGHE, GENERAL PRACTITIONER** It's been a lifeline thrown at us
with the Budget, because we have been struggling to continue bulk billing
patients especially the vulnerable parts of the community, especially
children, and elderly and those who have disabilities. With the increase in
bulk billing incentive, we will be able to continue to work with them and
provide the services that they need and at the same time, we have been
fortunate to get this help this year so we will be able to continue the bulk
billing services and extend our services to this community.

**JOURNALIST** We just heard what it will do for pre-existing bulk billing
clinics, it has been reported in the past that places like Newcastle have next
to no bulk billing facilities at the moment, will this funding also help
create new bulk billing clinics?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** I've spoken to RT, the incoming president
of the Rural Doctors Association of Australia, and what he has said to me is
that it'll mean that practices that reluctantly, had to stop bulk billing,
will be able to resume bulk billing and practices that were weighing up
whether they could continue bulk billing will be able to do so. So we know
that it will, from what we've heard already, this has been warmly welcomed by
the Rural Doctors Association of Australia by the Rural Royal Australian
College of General Practice. So this is the biggest investment that's been
made in bulk billing since Medicare, a tripling of the bulk billing incentive.
And I'm confident from the Rural Doctors Association of Australia from the
Royal Australian College of General Practice, and from hearing from doctors
today like Dr. Yasas, that this will make a really big difference to practices
that have reluctantly felt that they couldn't continue to bulk bill or
practices that were weighing up whether they could continue and now have the
financial viability to do so.

**JOURNALIST** Are you hoping that this will create a ripple effect which
starts at bulk billing that potentially eases our hospital system and so on?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** This investment in primary care will mean
that people are getting that quality health care when and where they need it
affordably. We know that people have been avoiding seeing their GP because of
the out of pocket costs. And we know that that means that they get worse and
they end up in the emergency department at one of our overstretched hospitals
like the John Hunter. So we believe that what this will mean is that people
getting primary care when and where they need it will reduce pressure on an
already overstretched hospital system.

**JOURNALIST** And one of the other big issues that was important heading into
the election was getting GPs into the country, will this help with that in any
way?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** What we've done is we've taken a whole
pipeline approach to getting GPs into the country. International medical
graduates are already a priority area for our migration and immigration
pathways. With our local medical graduates we're now wiping their university
debt if they work in the most remote parts of Australia. We've also introduced
the single employer model, which will mean that our doctors training in
hospitals can move seamlessly from their hospital based training to working in
general practice. We're also investing in the WIP incentive, which gives
practices more support to have team based care. So we're investing across the
whole pipeline from international doctors, to doctors in training for people
early in their career, and for practice owners, who now have, as Dr Yasas has
said, a lifeline to be able to continue bulk billing. So, we believe that it
will encourage more doctors in training into general practice and be able to
keep the doctors that we have working in general practice with the right tind
of financial scaffolding.

**JOURNALIST** I had a couple of questions about pharmacists, if that's okay.
First one, what do the changes to Medicare mean for pharmacists?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** So what we have seen in this Budget,
Health Minister Mark Butler was given options from the Pharmaceutical Benefits
Advisory Committee, the expert committee on medicines, and what they presented
to Minister Butler was the option to go to 90 day dispensing or 60 day
dispensing. And with the advice of the technical experts Minister Butler has
made the decision to go to 60 day dispensing. This Budget is about cost of
living. One of the biggest cost of living pressures that people face is the
cost of their health care, including their medicines. What this will mean is
that almost 6 million Australians will be able to have more affordable
medicines. At the same time we value community pharmacy, I'm a pharmacist
myself, I've worked in community pharmacy, and we know how much community
pharmacies offer in every town and city right around Australia. And what we've
done is we've also announced a national scope of practice review. So we'll be
looking at the outdated red tape and silos that stop healthcare workers being
able to contribute to the top of their skills and training. We've also
reinvested in community pharmacy, any savings from 60 day dispensing will be
reinvested directly into community pharmacy. Announced in the Budget,
community pharmacies now will have access to the National Immunisation
Program. So children over five or everyone over five will be able to get their
jobs at a community pharmacy. We've also invested in aged care through
community pharmacies. So we strongly value community pharmacy. Community
pharmacy is one of the most accessible points of care, particularly for people
living outside of big cities, and any savings made through the 60 day
dispensing will be directly invested back into community pharmacy so that they
can continue to provide the quality care that Australians need and rely on.

**JOURNALIST** Another quick one sorry. Pharmacists say that they will be
forced to hike up prices to cover the losses, what support will be on offer?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** So we've already announced that we've
increased the rural allowance which is an allowance provided to pharmacies
that are outside of major centres, and as I said, every saving made through 60
day dispensing will be directly invested back into community pharmacy. We've
already demonstrated that with that access to the National Immunisation
Program. We're working very closely with community pharmacy and their peak
bodies to make sure that we see community pharmacy vibrant and sustainable
well into the future.

**JOURNALIST** What can pharmacists do to protect the viability of their
business model when the changes come into effect?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** As I said, we're working very closely
with community pharmacy and with their peak bodies, and any savings from 60
day dispensing will be directly reinvested back into community pharmacy. We
value community pharmacy and the contribution it makes. As a pharmacist
myself, I was giving jabs during COVID. We want to see pharmacist doing more,
working to the top of their skills and training, to make sure that every
Australian has quality health care close to home.

**JOURNALIST** Last one sorry, how would the proposed reinvestment help
pharmacists who are facing bankruptcy?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** What I have said is that any savings made
from 60 day dispensing will be directly reinvested back into community
pharmacy. Pharmacists have said for a long time, they want to use all of their
skills and training, they want to be able to do more. So with this national
scope of practice review and the reinvestment in pharmacy, pharmacists who
already have an expanded scope of practice, will be able to continue that and
they'll be able to do more. We have pharmacists that are wound care experts,
diabetes educators, sleep apnea experts. We want to see pharmacist who are
highly trained, qualified, capable healthcare workers being able to contribute
all of their skills and training to Australians healthcare.

**JOURNALIST** What about the benefits to patients with 60 day dispensing?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** So what we know is that healthcare costs,
particularly the cost of medicines, are a real pressure on household budgets.
So from the first of January, our government reduced the general co-payment
from $42.50 to $30. So we've already made medicines cheaper, now we're making
them more convenient and more accessible. So, someone who in consultation with
their GP, has a stable medical condition will now be able to see their GP less
often, and be able to get two months supply of their medication at once.
Talking to a mom who works full time and has diabetes, she said to me, this
will make such a difference to her and managing her healthcare and the family
budget.

**JOURNALIST** Could you see it expanded more, this sort of help for bulk
billing or is it meant to just help certain people in certain areas?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Our intention is that every Australian
has access to quality care close to home when they need it. This tripling of
the bulk billing incentive is recognising that people in regional and remote
Australia have worse health outcomes than people in our major cities. This is
the beginning of our big reinvestment in Medicare and in primary care. So the
rebate has now been indexed, which is a $1.5 billion investment. So increasing
the indexation of the rebate, plus the tripling of the bulk billing incentive
will help across Australia, but it's scaled tell people in the most regional
and remote parts of Australia.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

