Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Medicare Urgent Care Clinics

The Australian Government has announced 58 Medicare Urgent Care Clinics
(Medicare UCCs) will open around the country. Medicare UCCs will give
Australian families more options to see a healthcare professional when they
have an urgent, but not life threatening, need for care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare Urgent Care Clinics&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medicare-urgent-care-clinics)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medicare-urgent-care-clinics)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare Urgent Care Clinics&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medicare-urgent-care-clinics)

Loading...

## About the initiative

During the 2023-24 May Budget, the Australian Government announced $358.5
million over five years from 2022-23 to establish 58 Medicare Urgent Care
Clinics (Medicare UCCs). This measure builds on the 2022-23 October Budget
measure. The Medicare UCCs will be set up across Australia.

The Medicare UCCs are a new model of care to reduce pressure on our hospitals
and will:

  * be based in existing GP clinics, community health centres and Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services
  * be open after normal business hours and accept walk-in patients
  * be diverse, responding to the needs of the local community
  * be accessible to all people, including vulnerable people and young people.

People will be able to attend a Medicare UCC for non-life threatening acute
episodic care for minor injuries and illnesses. This includes closed
fractures, simple eye injuries, minor burns, treating a UTI or ear infection.

Medicare UCCs won’t be able to see people for major trauma or complex
conditions. This includes things like chronic disease management or preventive
health procedures such as cervical screening tests.

## Goals

The Medicare UCCs will:

  * increase options available for Australians to access timely and affordable healthcare services, particularly in the after hours periods and for same day healthcare
  * support Australians to have connected pathways of care through an integrated health system
  * provide culturally safe and appropriate care all people, including priority populations
  * reduce demand on emergency departments and allow hospital resources to focus on higher-urgency, life-threatening conditions
  * complement existing state-run emergency diversion initiatives.

## Becoming a Medicare UCC

Medicare UCC will be open to existing GPs, community health centres and
Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services.

A clinic must be able to meet the operational guidance and design principles
included in the expression of interest when they are open.

Clinics should have a strong connection to the local emergency department and
the surrounding health ecosystem.

## Status

We will continue to update this page as more information becomes available.

### New South Wales

NSW released an expression of interest process for Medicare UCCs on 2 March
2023 which closed on 12 April 2023. Applications are now under assessment.

### Queensland

QLD released an expression of interest process for Medicare UCCs on 24
February 2023 which closed on 24 March 2023. Applications are now under
assessment.

### South Australia

SA released an expression of interest process for Medicare UCCs on 22 February
2023 which closed on 24 March 2023. Applications are now under assessment.

### Western Australia

WA released an expression of interest process for Medicare UCCs on 1 February
2023 which closed on 24 March 2023. Applications are now under assessment.

### Tasmania

TAS released an expression of interest process for Medicare UCCs on 24
December 2022 which closed on 1 February 2023. Applications are now under
assessment.

### Other states and territories

Announcements for other locations and expressions of interests will occur as
negotiations continue to progress with state and territory governments.

## Contact

If you have questions about the Medicare UCC Initiative, contact the Medicare
UCC team through the Department of Health and Aged Care [online enquiry
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries).

Services Australia is responsible for registrations to connect Medicare UCCs
to Medicare. This includes registering the Medicare UCC to the Organisation
Register and providing secondary provider numbers for Medicare UCC providers.

If you have questions about Medicare Provider Registration applications
assistance please contact the Medicare provider enquiries line on 132 150.

If you have questions about registering a Medicare UCC on HPOS Organisation
Register please contact the Services Australia Organisation Register team at
[Organisation.Register@servicesaustralia.gov.au](mailto:Organisation.Register@servicesaustralia.gov.au).

Last updated:

10 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

