Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)
  3. [Website privacy policy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

[Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

# Privacy notice for consumers using the Commonwealth-procured Booking
Platform for COVID 19 vaccinations

Find out how we manage any personal information we collect when you make an
appointment to get a COVID-19 vaccine through the Commonwealth-procured
Booking Platform.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Privacy notice for consumers using the Commonwealth-procured Booking Platform for COVID 19 vaccinations&url=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-consumers-using-the-commonwealth-procured-booking-platform-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-consumers-using-the-commonwealth-procured-booking-platform-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Privacy notice for consumers using the Commonwealth-procured Booking Platform for COVID 19 vaccinations&body=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-consumers-using-the-commonwealth-procured-booking-platform-for-covid-19-vaccinations)

Loading...

On this page

This privacy notice explains how we, the Australian Government Department of
Health, manage your personal information, consistent with our obligations
under the [Privacy Act
1988](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00024) (the **Privacy Act**
), when you make an appointment to get a COVID-19 vaccine through the
Commonwealth-procured booking platform ( **Booking Platform** ).

We have partnered with HealthEngine Pty Ltd ( **HealthEngine** ) to develop
and run the Booking Platform. Many clinics already have an online booking
system that will be used for COVID-19 vaccination appointments. The Booking
Platform has been procured by the Commonwealth as an option for providers who
do not already have an online booking solution.

This privacy notice does not apply where:

  * your vaccine provider is using a different online booking solution to schedule and manage appointments (that could include their existing HealthEngine booking solution which is covered under a separate privacy policy from the Booking Platform).
  * you contact providers directly rather than booking online, even if they may be using the Booking Platform.

## **What is the Booking Platform?**

The Booking Platform is part of our COVID-19 Vaccine Information and Location
Service ( **VILS** ), which provides Australians with the information and
services they need to get a COVID-19 vaccination. It is a Commonwealth-
procured online Booking Platform that vaccine providers can choose to use to
create and manage appointment slots for COVID-19 vaccinations. It will be in
use from phase 1b of the COVID-19 Vaccine Rollout Program onwards.

You will first need to check whether you are in the right phase to receive a
COVID-19 vaccine on the [Eligibility Checker](https://covid-
vaccine.healthdirect.gov.au/eligibility). If you are eligible, you will be
directed to Healthdirect’s Vaccine Clinic Finder to select your preferred
vaccine provider.

If your vaccine provider has chosen to use the Booking Platform, you will be
able to tell by the co-branded experience across the booking flow and email
communications featuring the Australian Government's "COVID-19 Vaccination"
logo and a "powered by HealthEngine" logo.

## **Collection of your information**

If you book your vaccination using the Booking Platform, you will be required
to sign in or register a new account with HealthEngine.

When you register a new account with HealthEngine, you will be required to set
up a password and provide your name and email.

If you are signing in via an existing HealthEngine account and you usually log
in via Google, Apple or Facebook, you will instead be asked to login using
your email. This will require you to change how your account is authenticated
and you will be need to reset your password in order to proceed with making a
booking.

Like many other booking solutions in the market, if you make an appointment
using the Booking Platform you will also be required to provide personal
information, including your:

  * Name
  * Contact details (address, email address and mobile number)
  * Date of birth
  * Medicare card details
  * Whether you have attended the vaccination provider before

If you are booking on behalf of another person such as a dependent, you will
be required to provide the following personal information:

  * Name
  * Mobile number
  * Email.

You can find out more in HealthEngine’s [Collection
Statement](https://healthengine.com.au/legal/commonwealth/collection.php?cid=par:hea:cbp::cbp::::mar21)
for the Booking Platform and its [Privacy
Policy](https://healthengine.com.au/legal/commonwealth/privacy.php?cid=par:hea:cbp::cbp::::mar21)
for the Booking Platform.

## **Use and disclosure of your information**

### **HealthEngine’s use and disclosure of information**

Any personal information provided by you will be used by HealthEngine in
accordance with HealthEngine’s privacy policy for the Booking Platform and
[our Privacy Policy](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/privacy-
policy). We recommend that you read HealthEngine’s [Collection
Statement](https://healthengine.com.au/legal/commonwealth/collection.php?cid=par:hea:cbp::cbp::::mar21)
for the Booking Platform and its [Privacy
Policy](https://healthengine.com.au/legal/commonwealth/privacy.php?cid=par:hea:cbp::cbp::::mar21)
for the Booking Platform carefully.

**HealthEngine** will provide your personal information (and that of any
person making the booking on your behalf) to your vaccine provider for the
purposes of booking and managing your appointment, including rearranging the
date and time of your appointment.

Your **vaccine provider** may use the information for practice management and
record‑keeping purposes. This may include using the information for the
purposes of reporting into the Australian Immunisation Register ( **AIR** ).

Your personal information may also be shared with other Commonwealth-procured
systems for the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. We do this to reduce the number of
times you provide your personal information and to streamline your **vaccine
provider’s** processes at your appointment. We will only do this where your
**vaccine provider** is using other Commonwealth-procured systems for the
COVID-19 vaccine rollout, such as the [Clinician Vaccine Integrated
Platform](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/collection-notice-for-
the-clinician-vaccine-integrated-platform-cvip "Collection notice for the
Clinician Vaccine Integrated Platform \(CVIP\)") (CVIP).

Where your **vaccin** **e provider** is a government health agency (such as a
State or Territory Department of Health) and you have made a booking at their
clinic using the Booking Platform, your personal information may be disclosed
and used for clinical purposes and/or to monitor the progress of the rollout.
The State or Territory Department of Health may also use your information with
their other clinical datasets for this purpose, in line with the relevant
State or Territory privacy legislation and/or policies.

If your vaccine provider is a provider that has more than one site, your
information may be provided to multiple sites.

HealthEngine will not disclose your personal information for secondary
purposes, such as direct marketing or research and analysis.

HealthEngine may disclose your personal information to third party service
providers (such as IT and software service providers, Adobe Analytics for
analysis and quality assurance purposes, security entities that minimise risks
and block suspicious behaviour such as Google reCAPTCHA, and its professional
advisers such as lawyers and auditors), but only for the purpose of providing
goods or services to HealthEngine.

HealthEngine requires their third party service providers to agree to
appropriate privacy restrictions, and only permit those service providers to
access personal information to the extent needed to provide goods or services
to HealthEngine.

HeathEngine will not disclose your personal information to overseas
recipients.

HealthEngine will disclose **de-identified** booking information to **us** to
support the monitoring and progress of the vaccine rollout.

### **Our use and disclosure of de-identified information**

**We** will use the information to:

  * monitor vaccine coverage and logistics for the COVID-19 vaccines rollout. We would include relevant booking information (such as number of appointments made in your postcode) in the Vaccine Data Solution to support this. The Vaccine Data Solution is our software solution hosted in Australia that generates **de-identified** reports and statistics.

We may share this information where it is required by law and where it is
necessary for managing the rollout of the COVID-19 vaccine. This may include
sharing the information with other government entities, including State and
Territory government entities.

We will not disclose your information to overseas recipients.

See our [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-
websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations
"Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations ") for information on how we
collect, use and handle your personal details when you get a COVID-19 vaccine.

## **Website analytics**

When you use the Booking Platform, HealthEngine will use cookies (small files
stored on your device) to recognise an individual web user as they use the
Booking Platform. The cookie identifies a browser or device, not the
individual user personally. No personal information is stored within cookies
used by the Booking Platform’s website. This information is de-identified. The
information collected includes:

  * the server and IP address
  * your login data
  * the name of the top level domain
  * the type of browser you used
  * the date and time you accessed the website
  * how you interacted with our website
  * the previous website you visited.

HealthEngine will use the above de-identified information to understand how
the Booking Platform is being used. They may also disclose reports on usage to
us which also includes de-identified information only.

This helps HealthEngine to improve the Booking Platform and provides a better
user experience. The information generated by the cookie may be transmitted to
and stored by Adobe, who may use this information for the purpose of compiling
reports on website activity for HealthEngine. These reports do not identify
users personally.

## **How the Booking Platform stores booking system data**

Booking Platform data is stored on HealthEngine’s cloud environment in
Australia. HealthEngine is required to meet our requirements for privacy and
data security. HealthEngine will only hold information collected in the
Booking Platform in accordance with our requirements. Once the Booking
Platform is no longer needed, we will require Health Engine to destroy or
return the data to us.

Information which is held by us after we receive it from the Booking Platform
will be stored in our secure ICT systems in Australia and may be retained in
accordance with the Archives Act.

## **How you can access and correct information**

If you would like to obtain access to or request changes to your personal
information you can ask HealthEngine’s Privacy Officer:

  * by letter: Privacy Officer, HealthEngine Pty Limited, PO Box 7754, Cloisters Square, WA 6850, Australia; or
  * by email: [privacyofficer@healthengine.com.au](mailto:privacyofficer@healthengine.com.au?subject=Healthengine%20Privacy%20Policy)

## **Concerns and complaints**

Our [privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy policy")
explains how you can make a complaint if you think we (the Department of
Health) have breached:

  * the Australian Privacy Principles
  * the Australian Government Agencies Privacy Code

Our [privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy policy")
also explains how we will manage your complaint.

Alternatively, you can contact HealthEngine:

  * by letter: Privacy Officer, HealthEngine Pty Limited, PO Box 7754, Cloisters Square, WA 6850, Australia; or
  * by email: [privacyofficer@healthengine.com.au](mailto:privacyofficer@healthengine.com.au)

## **More on COVID-19 vaccine privacy**

We have taken steps to ensure that the implementation of the the [COVID-19
Vaccine and Treatment Strategy](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines/about-covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccine-and-
treatment-strategy) is compliant with the [Privacy Act
1988](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00024) and any other
legislation that is relevant to the rollout.

Read more about privacy matters relating to the COVID‑19 vaccine rollout on
our [COVID-19 Privacy Page](http://www.health.gov.au/covid19-privacy).

For general privacy matters, see our [privacy page](/using-our-
websites/website-privacy-policy "Website privacy policy") and our [full
privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy policy").

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Departmental privacy enquiries ](/contacts/departmental-privacy-
enquiries?language=en)

Contact to find out more about privacy within the department, or to make a
privacy enquiry or complaint.

Privacy officer:

[privacy@health.gov.au](mailto:privacy@health.gov.au)

Phone:

[02 6289 1555](tel:02 6289 1555)

Freecall:

[1800 020 103](tel:1800 020 103)

Last updated:

25 June 2021

Tags:

  * [About the department](/topics/about-the-department)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
    * [Privacy impact assessment register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-impact-assessment-register)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care reform webinars](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-aged-care-reform-webinars)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care announcements and newsletters](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-aged-care-sector-newsletters-and-alerts)
    * [Privacy notice for consumers using the booking platform for COVID 19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-consumers-using-the-commonwealth-procured-booking-platform-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 training](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-training)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 mental health updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-mental-health-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccines update](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccines-update)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 weekly updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-updates-for-gps)
    * [Privacy notice for Health Portfolio Federal Budget Information](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-health-portfolio-federal-budget-information)
    * [Privacy notice for MRFF newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-mrff-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for National Immunisation Program (NIP) updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-national-immunisation-program-nip-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS – participants and family members](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross-participants-and-family-members)
    * [Collection notice for the Clinician Vaccine Integration Platform (CVIP)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/collection-notice-for-the-clinician-vaccine-integrated-platform-cvip)
    * [Privacy notice for the contact a minister form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-contact-a-minister-form)
    * [Privacy policy for the COVIDSafe app](https://covidsafe.gov.au/privacy-policy.html)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-patients)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-patients)
    * [Privacy Notice for Australian Immunisation Handbook updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-australian-immunisation-handbook-updates)
    * [Privacy Notice for the Register of Interest for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-register-of-interest-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines updates for multicultural communities](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-and-covid-19-vaccines-updates-for-multicultural-communities)
    * [Privacy notice for My Aged Care Learning Management System (MAClearning)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-my-aged-care-learning-management-system-maclearning)
    * [Privacy notice for the COVID-19 pandemic response workforce expression of interest form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-covid-19-pandemic-response-workforce-expression-of-interest-form)
    * [Privacy notice for the Government Provider Management System](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-gpms)
    * [Privacy notice for the MBS Review newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for the MRAC communique](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee-communique)
    * [Privacy notice for the Re-engaging Volunteers into Residential Aged Care Facilities program](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-re-engaging-volunteers-into-residential-aged-care-facilities-program)
    * [Privacy notice for vaccination providers using the COVID-19 Vaccine Administration System (CVAS)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-vaccination-providers-using-the-covid-19-vaccine-administration-system-cvas)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

