Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

[Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

# The Prostheses List

Private health insurers are required to pay benefits for the products listed
on the Prostheses List. Find out what the Prostheses List includes, when we
update it, and how to apply to list products on the Prostheses List or change
current listings.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=The Prostheses List&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=The Prostheses List&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list)

Loading...

On this page

## **What is the Prostheses List?**

By law, private health insurers are required to pay a benefit for a product
if:

  * the product is on the [Prostheses List](/resources/publications/prostheses-list "Prostheses List")
  * the patient receives the product as part of hospital treatment or hospital substitute treatment
  * the patient has appropriate health insurance to cover for the treatment
  * a Medicare benefit is payable for a service associated with the use of the product.

Examples of products on the Prostheses List include:

  * hip, knee or shoulder joint replacement devices
  * cardiac implantable electronic devices, like pacemakers and implantable cardioverter defibrillators
  * vascular and cardiac stents
  * human tissue items, like bone or bone fragments, vascular grafts, corneas and heart valves
  * insulin infusion pumps
  * cardiac ablation catheters
  * cardiac remote monitoring systems.

The Prostheses List includes:

  * the billing code for each product
  * a name, description and size(s) of each product listed under the billing code
  * the minimum amount of benefit insurers pay for each product.

We categorise prostheses on the Prostheses List by their function, design,
performance, and expected outcomes. See the [Prostheses List
Groupings](/resources/publications/prostheses-list-grouping-schemes
"Prostheses List Grouping Schemes").

Find out how we assess products and manage the list by reading the [Prostheses
List Guide](/resources/publications/prostheses-list-guide "Prostheses List
Guide").

## For hospitals

You can use the Prostheses List to:

  * keep your systems up to date
  * ensure you are claiming the correct benefit for the product used for or implanted into your patients.

## **For insurers**

You can use the Prostheses List to:

  * keep your systems up to date
  * ensure you are paying the correct benefit.

## **For applicants**

You can use the [Prostheses List Management System
(PLMS)](http://prostheses.health.gov.au/wps/portal/register/!ut/p/a1/04_Sj9CPykssy0xPLMnMz0vMAfGjzOJNPb09DUwMjLz9nZxcDBw9fUJ9XC0NjQz8TYEKIoEKDHAARwNC-
sP1o8BK8JhQkBthkO6oqAgA-
HOkGw!!/dl5/d5/L2dBISEvZ0FBIS9nQSEh/?token=e5LYf9OcvU2vpI79_SLml093Q8RSt4Ca5FxKmBazT2b8blepWsI0ZUXPRmmBZYaJ2uMzA5fOTEBp_Ge_Jjz1xJngkcgWHQDgG3Jv7C0CgSP5xRvdsyTEla2YKLY-
ujy9U6-AQ7X8hl1lNh8ERO5xusPeI4sdK3BcwUM0hP2KTnHdWobV5G8XBtd54QhdqBJpLntBzTFa9opgZVk4KmwePIm9doVFuajZRnWOaP1DCiKqkO9XeLFYKDoMZy7LCmI-
Me91H4XODuYgbG4y_V47NA) to apply to:

  * list your product on Prostheses List
  * change the details of an existing Prostheses List code
  * expand or compress the products listed under different codes on the Prostheses List
  * transfer, duplicate or delete a Prostheses List code.

See the [Prostheses List Guide](/resources/publications/prostheses-list-guide
"Prostheses List Guide") for:

  * how to apply
  * what evidence to provide when you apply
  * how we assess products for listing on the Prostheses List
  * application and listing fees.

For aortic valve and cardiac prostheses, also see the [Trans-Aortic Valve
Implantation Clinical Advisory Group (TAVICAG)
Guideline](/resources/publications/trans-aortic-valve-implantation-clinical-
advisory-group-guideline "Trans-Aortic Valve Implantation Clinical Advisory
Group Guideline").

## **Updates, changes and reforms**

We usually update the Prostheses List every March, July and November.

The Australian Government has also committed $22 million to reforming the list
by 2025. We are working with insurers, hospitals, medical device companies and
clinicians to [make the list more efficient, more transparent and better able
to keep up with technological advances](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-
prostheses-list/the-prostheses-list-reforms "The Prostheses List reforms").

See our [private health insurance
circulars](https://www.health.gov.au/news/phi-circulars) for changes to the
list and updates on prostheses reforms.

## **Legislation**

The Private Health Insurance (Prostheses) Rules is a legislative instrument
made under the Private Health Insurance Act 2007. Schedule of the [Private
Health Insurance (Prostheses)
Rules](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2020L00735) is known as the
Prostheses List.

## Contact details

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Prostheses List contact ](/contacts/prostheses-list-
contact?language=en)

Contact us if you have questions about the Prostheses List, the Prostheses
List Advisory Committee, or its Clinical Advisory Groups (CAGs).

[prostheses@health.gov.au](mailto:prostheses@health.gov.au)

[Prostheses List](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/prostheses-
list)

Last updated:

29 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Medical devices](/topics/medical-devices)
  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

  * [About private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance)
  * [What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)
  * [Private health insurance reforms](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)
  * [Operating rules](/topics/private-health-insurance/operating-rules-for-private-health-insurers-and-providers)
  * [The Prostheses List](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list)
    * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list/the-prostheses-list-reforms)
  * [News](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

