Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Fraud costs NSW pharmacist two years in jail

A NSW pharmacist has been sentenced to two years imprisonment yesterday after
pleading guilty to defrauding taxpayers of almost $290,000.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Fraud costs NSW pharmacist two years in jail&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/fraud-costs-nsw-pharmacist-two-years-in-jail)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/fraud-costs-nsw-pharmacist-two-years-in-jail)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Fraud costs NSW pharmacist two years in jail&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/fraud-costs-nsw-pharmacist-two-years-in-jail)

Loading...

Date published:

11 November 2022

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

NSW pharmacist Felix Chan has been sentenced to two years imprisonment
yesterday by the Queanbeyan District Court after pleading guilty to defrauding
taxpayers of almost $290,000 by lodging false Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(PBS) claims.

Mr Chan was found to have made 99 false or misleading PBS claims between 1
January 2018 and 31 July 2020 for the supply of pharmaceutical benefits which
were not provided to patients.

Appearing in court on 29 August 2022, Mr Chan pleaded guilty to three counts
of offences resulting in a fraud value of $288,595. The pharmacist has since
repaid the entire amount.

This outcome is a culmination of the strong collaboration between the
Department of Health and Aged Care and the Commonwealth Director of Public
Prosecutions (CDPP), after investigating information obtained using the
department’s tip-off line.

In the past 12 months, the department has received a significant number of
tip-offs of suspected non-compliance or fraud of Government health payments.
It shows that Australians are willing call out those in the health care sector
who try to defraud taxpayers.

The Department of Health and Aged Care takes allegations of Medicare non-
compliance by health care providers very seriously and all tip-offs are
examined in accordance with the Department’s compliance assessment procedures.

The Department has a strong [health provider compliance program
](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/medicare-compliance)that’s protects
Australia’s health payments system through the prevention, identification and
treatment of incorrect claiming and fraud by health care suppliers.

Any concerns can be referred to the Department’s tip-off form at
[www.health.gov.au/fraud-tip-offs](http://www.health.gov.au/fraud-tip-offs)
and will be reviewed.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### Departmental media enquiries

Contact for members of the media

[news@health.gov.au](mailto:news@health.gov.au?subject=Media enquiry - News
item ID 3086&body=URL - https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.au%2Fnews%2Ffraud-costs-
nsw-pharmacist-two-years-in-jail)

[02 6289 7400](tel:02 6289 7400)

[View contact](/contacts/departmental-media-enquiries)

Tags:

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

