Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Interview with Assistant Minister McBride, Sky News Newsday with Tom Connell
- 17 April 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's interview on rural and
regional primary care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Interview with Assistant Minister McBride, Sky News Newsday with Tom Connell - 17 April 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-sky-news-newsday-with-tom-connell-17-april-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-sky-news-newsday-with-tom-connell-17-april-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Interview with Assistant Minister McBride, Sky News Newsday with Tom Connell - 17 April 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-sky-news-newsday-with-tom-connell-17-april-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

17 April 2023

Date published:

17 April 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**TOM CONNELL, HOST**

There is a GP shortage in Australia. It's caused by a couple of major factors.
One is fewer medical students when they graduate choosing to go down the GP
pathway, but particularly in the regions because we usually rely on a lot of
migrant doctors who haven't been coming during COVID. Labor has been talking
about this in particular in opposition and the government says it will address
this, so have a look do so? Joining me live as Assistant Minister for Rural
and Regional Health, Emma McBride. Thanks very much for your time. You've been
meeting with a lot of local community groups including GPs themselves, what
are they saying is needed to address the shortage and how bad is it?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

This is a problem that is apparent across Australia. I've been meeting with
local communities, Launceston in Tasmania, Townsville in far north Queensland,
I'm here in Mildura in Victoria today. And what I'm hearing is it's never been
harder or more expensive to see a doctor. And this isn't something that's just
happened. This is a result of almost a decade of neglect of the former
government and it's something that as the Assistant Minister for Rural and
Regional Health, that I'm determined working with GPs, working with nurse
practitioners, working with allied health workers to turn around. It can't be
that someone living in the most rural part of Australia has a 19 year less
life expectancy than someone living in a metro and this is something that is a
widespread problem. It starts in the outer suburbs and continues across
regional and it's felt most acutely in rural Australia.

**TOM CONNELL, HOST**

One core demand from GPs of all stripes it seams and doctor groups is the
Medicare rebate per appointment. That's fallen as a percentage over quite a
number of years now, it was frozen, but the point is the percent that is
rebated has dropped again and again and again. Is that why bulk billing in
particular and even GP numbers out there has dropped? Would you agree with
that as a basic premise?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

There are lots of contributing factors to the GP shortage and as I mentioned,
this has happened over a decade of the former government. Minister Butler, the
Health Minister stood up the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce not long after
the election because this is one of the top priorities of our government. And
those recommendations from the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce are going
through the budget process and will be backed in our $750 million
Strengthening Medicare Fund. There are many contributing factors and we need a
coordinated and well thought out response to be able to make a genuine change
to the health outcomes of people living in rural and regional Australia.

**TOM CONNELL, HOST**

Right and so what you're saying is one thing won't fix this issue, but money
is a pretty important one whether we like it or not. So do you agree that
there is a basic core issue here? That rebate the fact it's been going down in
real terms is a key factor to the issue we're seeing in terms of GP shortages
and not just GP shortages, but bulk billing falling off as well.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

With the Medicare rate freeze that we saw under the former government has yes
contributed to this problem. And it's one of the considerations of the
Strengthening Medicare Taskforce. And those recommendations have been going
through the budget process at the moment and they will be backed in by their
$750 million Strengthening Medicare Fund, but what I've heard around Australia
is that there are lots of different solutions to this health care access and
affordability problems that people see. Today in Mildura I've heard from the
local Murray PHN who are talking about nurse practitioners and the vital role
and the expanded scope of practice that they can play. So there's lots of
different solutions that we need to consider but in a well coordinated,
integrated and thought out response.

**TOM CONNELL, HOST**

Yeah, and of course, this is what Mark Butler's spoken about that you spread
it through all the different people with medical expertise, you're a
pharmacist i'll note, who are going to have an increased role. So I understand
you're saying that that's how you can get more health care to more
Australians. But you mentioned going through the budget process, yes, there's
$750 million towards Strengthening Medicare, that's not going to deliver some
sort of big increase to the rebate, which would be a big ticket item. Is that
something seriously on the table for the government? The sort of increase that
might mean that bulk billing rates start going the other way, start going up
and people start taking up GPs as an elective again?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

One thing that our government is being open and transparent about is the rates
of bulk billing. These weren't available in real time, under the former
government. So we're being open and honest about the scale and the size of the
problem. I know the AMA and other advocacy groups have put forward this as
part of a solution. And as I mentioned, the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce
which included the AMA, included the medical colleges, have put forward
solutions like this, the recommendations that come out of that, the best way
that we can invest to improve accessibility and affordability and they're
going through the budget process.

**TOM CONNELL, HOST**

And the issue though that budget processes is a pretty ruthless one right now.
Is it fair to say that even amongst that health is a pretty key priority for
Labor that in a budget where we're not going to see a lot of big new spending.
There still is on the table, perhaps a significant increase to the Medicare
rebate.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

Health is an absolute top priority for our government. Labor introduced
Medicare, we've always fought for Medicare, for us it's about universal health
care, that no matter where you live, wherever you age, that you can get
affordable and timely health care, close to home. It's one of the main reasons
I put up my hand to stand for parliament. I'm a pharmacist, I worked in a
regional hospital for almost 10 years. I saw the results of the former
government's cuts and neglect, people turning up into emergency departments
with avoidable conditions that could have been treated more safely for them
through a GP. We are determined to turn around primary care to improve
people's health outcomes and to better support healthcare workers and our
health system.

**TOM CONNELL, HOST**

We've had very few doctors arriving during COVID, of course, GPs arriving in
the country. What's the situation now because there's the demand, are they
coming in the same numbers they were pre COVID? Is there a bit of a lull? What
can you tell us about that market for want for a better word?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

In terms of international medical doctors, and they have been a big part of
our rural and regional healthcare workforce over the years. They are one of
the top groups in terms of their processing through immigration. We know that
in country processes including in the colleges and things that we are working
to try to boost, but they are one of the top priorities for our government and
I've spoken to the relevant Minister for Immigration, Minister Giles about
these and it's something that I've also spoken to my other Cabinet colleagues
about. So they're absolute a top priority, And we've also acted on
distribution priority areas, which means that those international doctors are
now available to a wider pool of communities who need them.

**TOM CONNELL, HOST**

All right. Well, we'll find out more about the money available as you say that
budget processes is going on right now not long till we know. Assistant
Minister Emma McBride. We'll talk after then, thanks for your time.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

Thank you.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

