Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Resources](/resources)
  3. [Publications](/resources/publications)

[Publications](/resources/publications)

# Guaranteeing Medicare – Medical Benefits Schedule review – Pain Management
Services

This fact sheet details the changes to Medicare-funded pain management
services, to these changes are to reflect best practice, support high-value
care, and improve patient experiences and safety. These changes represent the
Government’s response to recommendations made by the MBS Review Taskforce.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Guaranteeing Medicare – Medical Benefits Schedule review – Pain Management Services&url=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/guaranteeing-medicare-medical-benefits-schedule-review-pain-management-services)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/guaranteeing-medicare-medical-benefits-schedule-review-pain-management-services)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Guaranteeing Medicare – Medical Benefits Schedule review – Pain Management Services&body=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/guaranteeing-medicare-medical-benefits-schedule-review-pain-management-services)

Loading...

![Cover image of the Pain Management Services MBS review fact
sheet](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/images/publications/2021/05/guaranteeing-
medicare-medical-benefits-schedule-review-pain-management-
services.png?itok=fvxuquQG)

Scroll down to access downloads and media.

## Downloads

### Guaranteeing Medicare – Medical Benefits Schedule review – Pain Management
Services

[ Download Guaranteeing Medicare – Medical Benefits Schedule review – Pain
Management Services as PDF \- 149.85 KB \- 1 page
](/sites/default/files/documents/2021/05/guaranteeing-medicare-medical-
benefits-schedule-review-pain-management-services.pdf)

[ Download Guaranteeing Medicare – Medical Benefits Schedule review – Pain
Management Services as Word \- 83.84 KB \- 1 page
](/sites/default/files/documents/2021/05/guaranteeing-medicare-medical-
benefits-schedule-review-pain-management-services.docx)

We aim to provide documents in an accessible format. If you're having problems
using a document with your accessibility tools, [please contact us for
help](/request-accessible-
format?destination=/resources/publications/guaranteeing-medicare-medical-
benefits-schedule-review-pain-management-services).

Publication date:

7 May 2021

Last updated:

12 May 2021

Publication type:

Fact sheet

Audience:

General public

Language:

English

Description:

The Australian Government is making changes to Medicare-funded pain management
services to ensure they reflect modern best practice, support high-value care,
and improve patient experiences and safety. These changes follow
recommendations from the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review Taskforce.

Part of a collection:

[MBS Review – Government responses](/resources/collections/mbs-review-
government-responses)

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

