Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19?language=en "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev?language=en "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/?language=en)
  2. [Topics](/topics?language=en)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare?language=en)
  4. [Medicare compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance?language=en)

[Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance?language=en)

# Reporting incorrect billing, claiming, or suspected fraud

We protect the integrity of health programs by making sure that correct
payments are made for the right services. If you think a doctor or pharmacist
has charged you, or claimed for, a service or product you didn’t receive, let
us know here.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Reporting incorrect billing, claiming, or suspected fraud&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud?language=en&utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud?language=en&utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Reporting incorrect billing, claiming, or suspected fraud&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud?language=en&utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)

Loading...

On this page

## What to report to us

Let us know if you think someone has claimed a Medicare or Pharmaceutical
benefit incorrectly. This may include claiming for a service which was not
provided, or not meeting the requirements for claiming.

The kinds of payment concerns to report to us include:

  * Medicare benefits via the [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home).
  * Pharmaceutical benefits via the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home).
  * [Child Dental Benefits Schedule (](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/child-dental-benefits-schedule)CDBS) payments.
  * Payments for through incentive programs including the [Practice Incentive Program (PIP)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program) and [Workforce Incentive Program (WIP)](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/workforce-incentive-program).
  * COVID-19 vaccination issues related to the charging of out of pocket costs, or the billing of additional Medicare items in general practice.
  * Charging for COVID-19 vaccinations by general practices.

We accept tip-offs about:

  * doctors, pharmacists, dentists and allied health professionals such as physiotherapists
  * pharmacies, medical practices, hospitals and administrative staff.

### If you see a name you don't know on your Medicare statement

Your Medicare statement includes a list of Medicare services which have been
claimed, and the practitioner who claimed the service.

Most of us recognise our doctor’s name, so it’s not unusual to be concerned if
you see a name you don’t recognise on your Medicare statement.

If this happens, consider whether you might have had a service, such as an eye
test, pathology, or diagnostic imaging, from someone other than your usual
provider. Pathology tests are claimed by the medical practitioner who reports
the result, not the person who collected the sample.

## What to report to someone else

There are some things we can’t investigate.

You can report these things to other authorities:

  * Reports about fake vaccine certificates – submit these to Services Australia ([Proof of COVID-19 vaccinations for businesses - Running a business - Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/proof-covid-19-vaccinations-for-businesses?context=60075))
  * Reports about patient safety or harm – submit these to the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency [(AHPRA)](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/Notifications.aspx).
  * Rude, racist, inappropriate professional conduct, not listening, dismissive service quality or interaction issues (also [AHPRA)](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/Notifications.aspx).
  * Suspected Medicare, pharmaceutical or Centrelink fraud by a member of the public (not a health provider or their employee) – **This includes concerns about stolen Medicare cards or that you have been advised that your Medicare details have been affected by the Optus breach** – submit these to [Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us/reporting-fraud).
  * Concerns about aged care services – submit these to the Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission [(ACQSC)](https://www.agedcarequality.gov.au/making-complaint).
  * Medicine on-selling by a member of the public – contact your state police.
  * Claims made to your private health insurer – report to your own health insurance fund.
  * COVID-19 vaccination issues in pharmacies: submit these to the Pharmacy Program Administrator [PPA tip-off form](https://www.ppaonline.com.au/compliance).

## How to submit a tip-off

You don’t have to give us your details when you submit a tip-off.

But it helps if you do, so we can contact you for more information if we need
it.

If you want to make a report, call our hotline.

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-default-icon.png)

###  [ Provider Benefits Integrity Hotline ](/contacts/provider-benefits-
integrity-hotline?language=en)

If you have concerns relating to a health provider you can submit details to
the department online by completing the tip-off form or by calling the
dedicated hotline between the hours of 9am to 5pm AEST.

Provider Benefits Integrity Hotline

[1800 314 808](tel:1800 314 808)

Or, if you can’t call the hotline, use our [tip-off
form](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-
provider-tip-off).

Last updated:

16 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare?language=en)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries?language=en "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
    * [About](/topics/medicare/compliance/about)
    * [When it applies](/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)
    * [How to comply](/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)
    * [Our compliance activities](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)
    * [Voluntary acknowledgement](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
    * [Debts and penalties](/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)
    * [Reporting incorrect billing or claiming, or suspected fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us?language=en "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers?language=en)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us?language=en)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting?language=en)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi?language=en "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us?language=en)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts?language=en)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website?language=en)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility?language=en)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright?language=en)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer?language=en)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy?language=en)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media?language=en)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions?language=en)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy?language=en)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre?language=en)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451&language=en)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

