Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

[Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

# About the Life Saving Drugs Program

The Life Saving Drugs Program (LSDP) provides fully subsidised access to
expensive essential medicines for eligible patients with ultra-rare life-
threatening diseases.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About the Life Saving Drugs Program&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/about-the-lsdp)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/about-the-lsdp)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About the Life Saving Drugs Program&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/about-the-lsdp)

Loading...

On this page

## What the LSDP is

The Life Saving Drugs Program (LSDP) pays for specific essential medicines to
treat patients with ultra-rare and life-threatening diseases.

Most medicines in Australia are subsidised through listing on the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS). Funding for medicines on the LSDP is
separate to the PBS.

The LSDP covers medicines if:

  * they are clinically effective, but not cost effective enough to list on the PBS
  * they treat life threatening and ultra-rare conditions (defined as 1 case per 50,000 people or fewer in the Australian population)
  * the pharmaceutical company (sponsor) applies for an LSDP listing.

Because these medicines are critical for patients, we assess all applications
within 30 days. We process most applications in around 8 days.

## LSDP medicines

This table lists the 18 medicines covered under the LSDP and the conditions
they treat. Click to view LSDP guidelines and forms for each condition.

Medicine(s) | Condition  
---|---  
  
Agalsidase alfa (Replagal®)

Agalsidase beta (Fabrazyme®)

Migalastat (Galafold®)

|

[Fabry disease](/node/15333)  
  
Imiglucerase (Cerezyme®)

Velaglucerase (VPRIV®)

Taliglucerase (Elelyso®)

Eliglustat (Cerdelga®)

|

[Gaucher disease (type 1)](/node/15574)  
  
Nitisinone (Orfadin® and Nityr™)

|

[Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT1)](/node/15582)  
  
Cerliponase alfa (Brineura®)

|

[Late-infantile onset Batten disease (CLN2)](/node/15583)  
  
Laronidase (Aldurazyme®)

|

[Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I)](/node/15575)  
  
Idursulfase (Elaprase®)

|

[Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II)](/node/15577)  
  
Elosulfase alfa (Vimizim®)

|

[Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA (MPSIVA)](/node/15578)  
  
Galsulfase (Naglazyme®)

|

[Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI (MPS VI)](/node/15579)  
  
Asfotase alfa (Strensiq®) | [Perinatal- and infantile-onset hypophosphatasia
(HPP)](/node/37587)  
  
Alglucosidase alfa (Myozyme®)

Avalglucosidase alfa (Nexviazyme®)

|

[Pompe disease](/node/15580):

  * infantile-onset
  * late-onset.

  
Sebelipase alfa (Kanuma®) | [Infantile-onset lysosomal acid lipase deficiency
(LAL-D)](/node/46100).  
  
## How the LSDP works

Several groups of people work together on the LSDP program.

  * [Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care](/%3Cfront%3E "Department of Health and Aged Care") – we fund and administer the program, and order medicines to be delivered to the patient’s nominated pharmacy.
  * [Pharmaceutical companies](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-medicine-sponsors "Life Saving Drugs Program for medicine sponsors") – apply to list relevant medicines on the LSDP, if their PBS application was rejected; supply medicines to participating pharmacies.
  * [Life Saving Drugs Program Expert Panel](/committees-and-groups/life-saving-drugs-program-expert-panel "Life Saving Drugs Program Expert Panel") (the Panel) – considers applications to list new medicines on the program; advises the Chief Medical Officer; reviews the drugs after 2 years.
  * [Chief Medical Officer](/node/4#chief-medical-officer) – recommends to the Minister for Health and Aged Care if a medicine should be listed on the LSDP or not.
  * [Treating physicians](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-treating-physicians "Life Saving Drugs Program for treating physicians") – check if patients are eligible; prescribe the medicines; complete and submit application forms; complete the annual review paperwork.
  * [Pharmacists](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-pharmacists "Life Saving Drugs Program for pharmacists") (usually at hospitals) – dispense medicines to patients according to the program rules.
  * [Patients](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-patients "Life Saving Drugs Program for patients") – take the medicine according to their doctor’s instructions, and follow the program requirements about regular reviews.

## Patient eligibility criteria

To get a medicine under the LSDP, you must:

  * be eligible according to the criteria in the [LSDP guidelines](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources "Life Saving Drugs Program resources") for your condition
  * participate in regular assessment to help us check how effective the medicine is; if you do not want to participate, you must have a valid reason why not
  * not have any other medical condition that might make the drug less effective (this includes complications of the primary condition)
  * be eligible to receive Medicare benefits.

### Patient reviews

We regularly review patient eligibility for the program, as set out in the
relevant [LSDP guidelines](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources "Life
Saving Drugs Program resources").

This is generally 12 months after starting the medicine, and every 12 months
after that. However, the Panel may ask doctors to submit patient data more
often.

Treating physicians must send in a reapplication for each patient by 1 May
every year.

## Medicines criteria and reviews

Medicines must also meet [eligibility criteria](/node/15399#medicine-
eligibility-criteria) to be listed on the LSDP.

The Panel reviews how medicines are performing 2 years after listing. This
ensures they are delivering the expected benefits and can continue to be
funded.

Last updated:

1 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)
  * [Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program)

  * [About the Life Saving Drugs Program](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/about-the-lsdp)
  * [For patients](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-patients)
  * [For treating physicians](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-treating-physicians)
  * [For pharmacists](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-pharmacists)
  * [For medicine sponsors](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/for-medicine-sponsors)
  * [Resources](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/life-saving-drugs-program/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

