Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

[Pathology](/topics/pathology)

# What we're doing about pathology

We develop policy and hold regulatory responsibilities for pathology in
Australia. Learn about approval and accreditation processes, compliance
activities and how we support quality pathology services.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we're doing about pathology&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/what-were-doing-about-pathology)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/what-were-doing-about-pathology)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we're doing about pathology&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/what-were-doing-about-pathology)

Loading...

On this page

Learn more about [pathology services under Medicare](/node/43999#cost-of-
pathology).

## Pathology approvals

To provide pathology services under Medicare, you must
[apply](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/pathology-services-for-health-
professionals?context=20#a3) to Services Australia for approval and meet the
relevant criteria.

Approvals required:

  * If you own a laboratory or collection centre, you must [apply to be an Approved Pathology Authority](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/approved-pathology-authorities?context=20).
  * If you examine collected specimens, you must [apply to be an Approved Pathology Practitioner](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/approved-pathology-practitioners?context=20).
  * Premises where approved practitioners examine collected specimens must [apply to be an Accredited Pathology Laboratory](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/accredited-pathology-laboratories?context=20).
  * Premises where specimens are collected must [apply to be an Approved Collection Centre](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/approved-collection-centres?context=20).

## Pathology accreditation

For pathology services to be eligible for Medicare benefits, laboratories must
meet [accreditation standards](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-
work/accreditation/pathology-accreditation-standards) that aim to ensure:

  * quality of care
  * patient safety.

Our role is to:

  * develop and maintain policy
  * hold regulatory responsibilities for pathology accreditation
  * work closely with pathology stakeholders to support the National Pathology Accreditation Scheme, including [relevant legislation](/node/43999#pathology-laws-and-regulations).

One of the key functions of the National Pathology Accreditation Advisory
Council (NPAAC) is to develop and maintain the accreditation standards for
pathology laboratories in Australia. The Australian Commission on Safety and
Quality in Health Care supports the NPAAC and the [National Pathology
Accreditation Scheme](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-
work/accreditation/pathology-accreditation-standards/national-pathology-
accreditation-scheme).

The [National Association of Testing Authorities](https://www.nata.com.au/),
Australia is the current recognised accrediting agency for pathology
accreditation.

[Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/accredited-
pathology-laboratories) manages the administration of accredited pathology
providers. This includes tracking the accreditation status of laboratories and
managing arrangements with organisations that conduct accreditation
assessments.

Read more about:

  * [accreditation and standards for pathology laboratories](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-work/accreditation/national-pathology-accreditation-npa-scheme)
  * [resources for the pathology standards](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-work/accreditation/pathology-accreditation-standards/resources-pathology-standards), including COVID-19 testing
  * [providing and claiming pathology services under Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/pathology-services-for-health-professionals?context=20).

## Improving pathology outcomes

Pathology requests can be made electronically. Learn more on the Services
Australia website about:

  * [requesting pathology services](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/referring-and-requesting-medicare-services?context=20#a5)
  * [electronic referrals and requests](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/referring-and-requesting-medicare-services?context=20#a6).

The [Quality Use of Pathology Program](/our-work/quality-use-of-pathology-
program "Quality Use of Pathology Program ") (QUPP) funds innovative
initiatives that are aimed towards improving MBS pathology services.

## Pathology compliance

We make sure that pathology services comply with the national [Health
Insurance Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00174). This
includes:

  * charging [rent for approved collection centres](/topics/pathology/compliance "Pathology compliance")
  * [investigating reports of incorrect billing, claiming or suspected fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud "Reporting incorrect billing, claiming, or suspected fraud").

Last updated:

8 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

  * [About pathology](/topics/pathology/about-pathology)
  * [What we're doing about pathology](/topics/pathology/what-were-doing-about-pathology)
  * [Pathology compliance](/topics/pathology/compliance)
  * [Resources](/topics/pathology/pathology-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/pathology/pathology-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

