Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)

[Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-
prevention)

# About mental health

Mental health has a huge impact on every aspect of people's lives. It affects
behaviour, physical health, work and relationships, as well as the people
around them. Find out what we’re doing to support people’s mental health in
Australia.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About mental health&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/about-mental-health)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/about-mental-health)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About mental health&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/about-mental-health)

Loading...

On this page

## Get help now

In an emergency, call 000.

Help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, anywhere in Australia. If you
need help now, call:

  * [Lifeline](https://www.lifeline.org.au/) **** – 13 11 14
  * [Kids Helpline](https://kidshelpline.com.au/) **** – 1800 55 1800
  * [Mental Health Crisis Assessment and Treatment Team](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/crisis-management) in your state/territory
  * [Beyond Blue](https://www.beyondblue.org.au/get-support/get-immediate-support) – 1300 224 636.

Find a [list of services that can help you right
now](https://headtohealth.gov.au/crisis-links) at Head to Health

If you need urgent care, go to the emergency department at your local
hospital. If you have private hospital insurance cover, you can [upgrade your
cover to access in-hospital psychiatric care](/topics/private-health-
insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/waiting-periods-and-exemptions
"Waiting periods and exemptions") and receive inpatient mental health care
once, before the waiting period is completed.

## **What mental health is**

Mental health is a state of wellbeing that enables you to deal with what life
throws at you.

It is about feeling resilient, enjoying life and being able to connect with
others.

Good mental health helps you:

  * cope with the normal stresses of life
  * be productive both at work and in your private life
  * relate well to other people
  * contribute to your community.

## **Mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic**

The impacts of coronavirus (COVID-19), physical distancing and isolation can
make you feel anxious, stressed and worried. It can also worsen existing
mental health conditions.

We are supporting people’s mental health during the pandemic, including
through:

  * providing extra funding for [Primary Health Networks](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/PHN-Locator) to boost existing mental health services, including for vulnerable groups such as older Australians, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and culturally and linguistically diverse communities
  * improving and expanding the headspace network to support young people
  * providing extra funding for the Beyond Blue Coronavirus Mental Wellbeing Support Service, which includes a 24/7 phone support service, web chat support service and online forums
  * boosting services such as [Lifeline](https://www.lifeline.org.au/), [Kids Helpline](https://kidshelpline.com.au/) and other [digital services](/our-work/digital-mental-health-services "Digital mental health services") to support specific groups
  * doubling the [Medicare-subsidised psychological therapy sessions](/looking-after-your-mental-health-during-coronavirus-covid-19-restrictions "Looking after your mental health during coronavirus \(COVID-19\) restrictions") under the Better Access initiative for people with a mental health care plan from 10 to 20 sessions
  * providing additional help and support to people of all ages living in NSW, Vic and the ACT through [Head to Heath Pop Up services](https://www.headtohealth.gov.au/popup).

Read more about [what we’re doing and what you can do to look after your
mental wellbeing](/looking-after-your-mental-health-during-coronavirus-
covid-19-restrictions "Looking after your mental health during coronavirus
\(COVID-19\) restrictions") during the pandemic.

## Why mental health matters

Almost half of all Australians adults – 7.3 million people – will face mental
ill-health at some point.

It can affect anyone at any stage of life, and can have a negative effect not
just on your own life, but also on the people around you, your community and
Australia as a whole.

People living with mental ill-health are at higher risk of:

  * having physical health issues
  * being unemployed
  * being homeless
  * being in prison.

The estimated cost of mental ill-health on Australia's economy is [up to $220
billion each year](https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/completed/mental-
health#report).

We are working to build a better mental health system that improves the lives
of people with, or at risk of, mental illness.

Find out [what we’re doing about mental health in Australia](/topics/mental-
health-and-suicide-prevention/what-were-doing-about-mental-health "What we're
doing about mental health").

## **How mental health affects us**

Your mental health affects how you think, feel and act.

It influences how you handle stress, how you relate to people, and how you see
yourself and the world around you.

It shapes the choices you make throughout the course of your life, and has an
impact on your work, relationships, and even physical health.

There are many types of mental health conditions and disorders. The most
common are:

  * anxiety
  * affective disorders, including depression
  * substance use disorders, including [alcohol use](/topics/alcohol "Alcohol").

Each condition:

  * has a variety of symptoms
  * can be short or long term
  * can affect people in different ways – some have mild symptoms, while others have severe symptoms that can lead to harm to themselves or others.

With the right support, you can manage and improve mental ill-health, and
maintain your mental health.

## **Mental health through life**

Your mental health can change as you go through various stages in your life,
and many factors can contribute. For example:

  * biological factors, such as genes, brain chemistry or hormonal changes
  * family history of mental ill-health
  * life experiences, such as trauma or abuse
  * major stress, such as financial or work-related stress
  * significant life changes, such as a relationship breakup, the death of a loved one, [pregnancy](https://www.panda.org.au/) and birth, or ageing.

## **Mental health treatment and support**

If you feel worried, anxious or depressed, seek help.

As a first step, seek online or phone support, or see your doctor.

### **Healthdirect**

[Healthdirect](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/search-results/mental%20health)
provides quality, approved mental health information, advice and resources.
These are tailored to the needs of different groups, including older
Australians, children and young people, veterans and carers.

Healthdirect can also help you with information on:

  * various conditions and disorders
  * signs and symptoms
  * helpline numbers
  * where to get help
  * recovery
  * services in each state and territory.

### **Head to Health**

[Head to Health](https://headtohealth.gov.au/) provides information, advice
and links to free and low-cost phone and online mental health services and
supports to help you or someone you know.

This includes:

  * ways to improve your wellbeing
  * ways to help someone you are worried about
  * information on specific mental health conditions
  * support for specific community groups
  * links to relevant digital services suited to your needs.

### **Better Access initiative**

You might be eligible for Medicare rebates to get support and treatment under
the [Better Access initiative](/our-work/better-access-initiative "Better
Access initiative"). Talk to your general practitioner (GP) about getting a
mental health care plan as a first step.

### Contacts

Find [mental health support contacts](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-
prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-contacts "Mental health and
suicide prevention contacts").

## **Preventing suicide**

Suicide is the leading cause of death among Australians aged between 15 and
49. We lose more people to suicide each year than to road accidents.

Suicide is a complex issue, affected by a wide variety of factors. Although
mental ill-health is often a contributing factor, not everyone who dies by
suicide will have been experiencing mental ill-health. Suicide deaths have
also been associated with life stressors, such as social isolation,
relationship breakdown and financial hardship.

Suicide has an enormous impact on families, friends and communities.

It’s critical people who are at risk of suicide get the support they need. We
have plans, strategies and programs, and we fund research, to help [prevent
suicide](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/what-were-doing-about-
suicide-prevention "What we're doing about suicide prevention").

## **Lifestyle and mental health**

Many factors that affect mental health are preventable. You can make a
difference by:

  * reducing drug and [alcohol](/topics/alcohol "Alcohol") use
  * reducing [cigarette smoking](/topics/smoking-and-tobacco "Smoking and tobacco")
  * [eating healthy](/topics/food-and-nutrition "Food and nutrition")
  * [exercising](/topics/physical-activity-and-exercise "Physical activity and exercise") regularly
  * getting adequate sleep.

Find out [what we’re doing to keep Australians healthy](/topics/preventive-
health "Preventive health").

Last updated:

8 March 2022

Tags:

  * [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Mental health and suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-
prevention)

  * [About mental health](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/about-mental-health)
  * [Mental health in Australia](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-in-australia)
  * [What we're doing about mental health](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/what-were-doing-about-mental-health)
  * [About suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/about-suicide-prevention)
  * [Suicide in Australia](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/suicide-in-australia)
  * [What we're doing about suicide prevention](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/what-were-doing-about-suicide-prevention)
  * [News](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

