Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Palliative care](/topics/palliative-care)
  4. [Planning your palliative care](/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care)

[Planning your palliative care](/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-
palliative-care)

# Find a palliative care service provider

Finding the right palliative care provider is an important part of getting the
best care for you. There are different types of care providers and different
locations where you can receive care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Find a palliative care service provider&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care/find-a-palliative-care-service-provider)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care/find-a-palliative-care-service-provider)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Find a palliative care service provider&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care/find-a-palliative-care-service-provider)

Loading...

There are different kinds of palliative care service providers. You may only
need one or you may need a few.

A **palliative care provider** is a health professional who cares for you if
you have a life-limiting illness. This could include:

  * your local doctor (GP)
  * community nurse
  * physiotherapist.

A **specialist** palliative care provider is health professional who has had
extra training to give you **specialist** care if you have a life-limiting
illness. These providers can provide that care in many settings including
hospices or your home. These health professionals can include:

  * your cancer doctor (oncologist)
  * palliative care nurse
  * counsellor.

A **specialist palliative care service** is a service provided by a team of
specialist palliative care providers. This would be the team looking after all
your needs and can include:

  * doctors and specialists
  * nurses
  * social workers
  * physiotherapists
  * occupational and speech therapists
  * psychologists
  * trained volunteers.

Where you [receive your palliative care](/topics/palliative-care/about-
palliative-care/where-is-palliative-care-provided "Where is palliative care
provided?") is up to you and your family, where possible. The [costs of
services](/topics/palliative-care/about-palliative-care/what-does-palliative-
care-cost "What does palliative care cost?") are usually covered by Medicare
but that may not always be the case.

Your doctor, community health centre, or local hospital can help with
information on palliative care services in your area.

Palliative Care Australia has developed the [National Palliative Care Service
Directory](https://palliativecare.org.au/directory-of-services). You can use
the directory to find a specialist palliative care service near you.

You can also call the palliative care association in your state or territory
for more information:

  * [Palliative Care ACT](https://www.pallcareact.org.au/)
  * [Palliative Care New South Wales](https://palliativecarensw.org.au/new/)
  * [Palliative Care South Australia](https://pallcare.asn.au/)
  * [Palliative Care Queensland](https://palliativecareqld.org.au/)
  * [Palliative Care Victoria](https://www.pallcarevic.asn.au/)
  * [Palliative Care WA](https://palliativecarewa.asn.au/)
  * [Palliative Care Tasmania](http://www.tas.palliativecare.org.au/).

Last updated:

2 March 2021

Tags:

  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Palliative care](/topics/palliative-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Palliative care](/topics/palliative-care)

  * [About palliative care](/topics/palliative-care/about-palliative-care)
  * [Palliative care throughout life](/topics/palliative-care/palliative-care-throughout-life)
  * [Planning your palliative care](/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care)
    * [Think about what you want](/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care/think-about-what-you-want)
    * [Start the conversation](/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care/start-the-conversation)
    * [Advance care planning](/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care/advance-care-planning)
    * [Advance care directive](/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care/advance-care-directive)
    * [Find a palliative care service provider](/topics/palliative-care/planning-your-palliative-care/find-a-palliative-care-service-provider)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/palliative-care/palliative-care-initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/palliative-care/palliative-care-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/palliative-care/palliative-care-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

