Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [National Cervical Screening Program – Healthcare provider toolkit](/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit)
  4. [Cervical screening options](/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit/cervical-screening-options)

[Cervical screening options](/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-
toolkit/cervical-screening-options)

# Self-collection for cervical screening

Self-collection of a vaginal sample is just as effective at detecting HPV as a
clinician-collected sample of the cervix.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Self-collection for cervical screening&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit/cervical-screening-options/self-collection-for-cervical-screening)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit/cervical-screening-options/self-collection-for-cervical-screening)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Self-collection for cervical screening&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit/cervical-screening-options/self-collection-for-cervical-screening)

Loading...

On this page

You must order and oversee self-collection of a vaginal sample. You must also
be able to provide timely collection of a clinician-collected cervical sample,
if required as part of a follow-up assessment.

You are responsible for:

  * facilitating access to, and return of, the self-collection swab
  * labelling the sample as ‘self-collect’ on the pathology request form
  * providing the sample to the laboratory for processing
  * communicating the results and any follow-up requirements to the patient.

Health services should work out which practitioners will give self-collection
consultations. Keep in mind that only doctors and nurse practitioners can sign
pathology requests for Cervical Screening Tests under the MBS rules. Remember
that patients who are not up to date with cervical screening are more likely
to speak with you if they know and trust you.

All health services should maintain complete data on patients’ screening
history. Staff can offer cervical screening to patients flagged in the patient
records.

You can find out a patient’s screening history by accessing the Healthcare
Provider Portal through PRODA. This provides a self-service alternative to
access and submit cervical screening data electronically in the National
Cancer Screening Register (NCSR). Practices using Best Practice,
MedicalDirector and Communicare can integrate their practice systems with the
NCSR to view their patient’s cervical screening record directly in a patient
record. Visit [NCSR.gov.au](http://www.NCSR.gov.au) for more information.

## Who is eligible for self-collection

Self-collection of a vaginal sample for screening is available as an option
for:

  * anyone who is eligible for cervical screening – women and people with a cervix aged 25-74 years who have ever had any sexual contact (which includes sexual intercourse, penetrative sex, oral sex, very intimate genital skin contact such as part of foreplay and anal sex)
  * follow-up HPV testing after an intermediate risk result1
  * cervical screening during pregnancy.

Encourage patients attending an in-person consultation to collect a sample
while they are still at the clinic. Sample collection is more likely in this
context. However, to maximise participation in cervical screening, self-
collection can occur in any setting that you think is appropriate for that
patient, including through a telehealth consultation.

## Who is not eligible for self-collection

Self-collection is not appropriate if the patient requires a co-test,
including patients who:

  * are symptomatic (e.g. experiencing unusual vaginal bleeding, pain or discharge)
  * are undergoing Test of Cure surveillance or been treated for a glandular abnormality
  * have had a total hysterectomy with past history of high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion
  * were exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in utero.

Patients with symptoms indicating cervical abnormalities or cancer need
diagnostic testing. Manage them according to the [National Cervical Screening
Program Clinical Guidelines](https://www.cancer.org.au/clinical-
guidelines/cervical-cancer-
screening/?title=Guidelines:Cervical_cancer/Screening).

## Managing self-collection results

Patients take a self-collected sample from the vagina (not the cervix).
Vaginal samples can only be tested for HPV and not for cytology.

If the self-collected test detects HPV , depending on the type of HPV
detected, the patient will either need:

  * a speculum examination (to collect a sample of cells from the cervix for liquid-based cytology) to determine management
  * to be sent directly for colposcopy.

You can find out more about cervical screening and collection options in these
resources:

  * [NCSP clinical management pathway](/resources/publications/national-cervical-screening-program-understanding-the-national-cervical-screening-program-management-pathway "National Cervical Screening Program – Understanding the National Cervical Screening Program Management Pathway")
  * [Self-collection quick reference guide](/resources/publications/national-cervical-screening-program-quick-reference-guide-self-collected-vaginal-sample "National Cervical Screening Program – Quick reference guide – Self-collected vaginal sample")
  * [Pathology Test Guide for Cervical and Vaginal Testing](/resources/publications/national-cervical-screening-program-pathology-test-guide-for-cervical-and-vaginal-testing "National Cervical Screening Program – Pathology test guide for cervical and vaginal testing")

[1] Note Medicare rebates for a self-collected sample at a follow up test for
people whose initial screening test was clinician collected will be effective
from 1 November 2022.

Last updated:

1 July 2022

Tags:

  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)
  * [National Cervical Screening Program – Healthcare provider toolkit](/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [National Cervical Screening Program – Healthcare provider toolkit](/our-
work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit)

  * [Understanding barriers to screening](/our-work/ncsp-healthcare-provider-toolkit/barriers-to-screening)
  * [Demonstrating respect and building trust](/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit/demonstrating-respect-and-building-trust)
  * [Working with patients who face specific barriers](/our-work/ncsp-healthcare-provider-toolkit/working-with-patients)
  * [Cervical screening options](/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit/cervical-screening-options)
    * [Self-collection](/our-work/NCSP-healthcare-provider-toolkit/cervical-screening-options/self-collection-for-cervical-screening)
  * [Cervical screening training and support](/our-work/ncsp-healthcare-provider-toolkit/training-and-support)
  * [Resource library](/our-work/ncsp-healthcare-provider-toolkit/resource-library)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

