Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

[Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

# About private health insurance

Your starting point for information about private health insurance – what it
is, what benefits it offers, who can provide insurance and who can get it, and
how it works with public health care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About private health insurance&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About private health insurance&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance)

Loading...

On this page

## What is private health insurance?

In Australia, private health insurance allows you to be treated in hospital as
a private patient. It can also help pay for health care costs that Medicare
doesn’t cover, such as physiotherapy. How much and what it covers depends on
your policy.

To get private health insurance you must:

  * buy a policy from a registered health insurer
  * pay regular premiums to stay covered.

## Benefits of private health insurance

### **More health cover and choice**

Depending on your policy, private health insurance pays some or all of the
costs of:

  * treatment in public or private hospitals as a private patient with the doctor of your choice
  * health services that are **not** **** covered under [Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/whats-covered-medicare) such as physiotherapy, dental and optical.

Private health insurance might also help you access some hospital services
more quickly.

Find out more about [what private health insurance covers](/topics/private-
health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers "What private health
insurance covers").

You can still choose to be a public patient in a hospital if you have private
health insurance.

### **Pay less tax**

Buying private hospital cover might mean you don’t have to pay the Medicare
levy surcharge.

The Medicare levy surcharge is a levy of up to 1.5% of taxable income on
people who:

  * don’t **** have private hospital cover
  * earn income over a certain level.

Find out more about the [Medicare levy
surcharge](https://privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/medicare_levy.htm)
and whether it applies to you.

### **Get a private health insurance rebate**

You’re entitled to a private health insurance rebate from the Australian
Government if:

  * you have private health insurance that provides hospital cover, general treatment (‘extras’) cover, or both
  * your income is below a certain limit.

You get the rebate as:

  * lower insurance premiums through your health insurer, or
  * an offset in your annual tax return – this reduces the tax you have to pay.

Read about the [Private Health Insurance
Rebate](https://privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/insurance_rebate.htm)
or use the [private health insurance rebate
calculator](https://www.ato.gov.au/Calculators-and-tools/Private-health-
insurance-rebate-calculator/).

### **Avoid paying more for cover when you’re older**

Lifetime Health Cover is an Australian Government initiative that lets you
avoid paying higher premiums for private hospital cover. To be eligible for
this you need to take out hospital cover before you turn 31 years old.

If you’re over 31 and take out hospital cover for the first time, you may pay
higher premiums for the next 10 years. You won’t pay more for extras cover.

Work out what you might have to pay with our [Lifetime Health Cover
calculators](https://privatehealth.gov.au/footer/lifetimehealthcover/index.htm)
or read more about [Lifetime Health
Cover](https://privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/surcharges_incentives/lifetime_health_cover.htm).

## **Who can get private health insurance**

You don’t have to take out private health insurance, but you can choose to if
you want cover for more health services and choice.

Most insurance is risk rated – for example, car or house insurance. Private
health insurance is community rated. This means:

  * everyone pays the same price for a particular policy
  * a health insurer can’t refuse to insure you or sell you the policy you want to buy
  * you are guaranteed the right to renew your policy.

## Overseas student health cover

If you’re in Australia on a temporary visa, you should consider buying
insurance to cover the costs of medical treatment. Find out more about [health
cover for overseas visitors and overseas
students](https://www.privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/overseas/index.htm).

International students who haven’t been able to return to Australia due to
COVID-19 should contact their private health insurer to find out about options
for extending, or suspending, their cover. Some may offer a period of
suspension, but they are not required to do so.

Read our collection of resources for international students.

![Overseas Student Health Cover \(OSHC\)
resources](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2020/07/overseas-
student-health-cover-oshc-resources.png?itok=TB2NnUa_)

###  [Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC) resources
](/resources/collections/overseas-student-health-cover-oshc-
resources?language=en)

This collection includes Overseas Student Health Cover resources related to
the provision of health insurance for international students and their
dependants.

## **Who provides private health insurance**

By law, only [registered health insurers](https://www.apra.gov.au/register-
private-health-insurers) can provide private health insurance.

Some health insurers can only offer policies to people in certain industries,
companies or groups. These are called [restricted
insurers](https://privatehealth.gov.au/dynamic/insurer/restricted).

Learn more about [private health insurance laws](/topics/private-health-
insurance/about-private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-laws
"Private health insurance laws").

## How private health insurance works with public health care

Private health insurance works with our public health care system to offer you
more choice and quicker access to some health services.

This table compares public and private health care services.

This table shows a list of health services, provides information on how those
services might be provided in the public health care system and what private
health insurance might offer in addition.

**Health service**

|

**Public health care**

|

**Private health insurance**  
  
---|---|---  
  
**In-hospital services**

|

You may be treated as a public patient in a public or private hospital.

The public health care system will cover the cost of your treatment.

As a public patient, you **cannot** choose your hospital, doctor or
specialist.

|

When you choose to be treated as a private patient in hospital:

  * your health insurer covers some or all of the hospital costs (such as accommodation)
  * Medicare covers some of the doctors’ costs
  * your health insurer covers some or all of the remaining doctors’ costs.

As a private patient, you **can** choose your hospital, doctor and specialist.  
  
**Doctor and specialist services outside of hospital**

|

Medicare covers some or all of the costs of services such as:

  * visits to a GP
  * visits to specialists in their rooms
  * diagnostic imaging
  * diagnostic tests.

|

Not covered.

By law, health insurers can’t offer cover for most of these services.  
  
**Other services outside of hospital**

|

Medicare covers some or all of the costs for other services outside of
hospital including:

  * dental care for some children
  * eye checks by optometrists
  * allied health services, such as psychology, in some circumstances.

|

You can choose policies that cover some or all of the costs for many services
outside of hospital.  
  
**Prescription medicines**

|

Prescription medicines are covered by the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(PBS)](http://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home).

|

You can choose policies that cover some prescription medicines not covered by
the PBS.  
  
**Prostheses**

|

The costs of implanted prostheses are covered if you’re a public patient.

|

If your policy covers the procedure to implant a prosthesis, it will also
cover some or all of the cost for the prosthesis itself. Find out more about
[private health insurance cover for prostheses](/node/8982).  
  
**Ambulance**

|

Some state and territory governments provide [ambulance
cover](https://privatehealth.gov.au/health_insurance/what_is_covered/ambulance.htm).

|

You can choose policies that cover ambulance costs when they are not covered
by your state or territory government.  
  
### Public hospital outpatient clinics

If you are treated in a hospital outpatient clinic, this does not mean you
have been admitted to hospital.

If you are treated as a public patient in a public hospital outpatient clinic
you won’t pay anything.

If you have a private referral to see a doctor in a public hospital outpatient
clinic and the treatment is on the MBS, you can claim a Medicare benefit.

Medicare pays 75% of the MBS fee for services on the MBS that you receive as a
private patient in a public or private hospital.

Learn more about [what private health insurance covers](/topics/private-
health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers "What private health
insurance covers").

Last updated:

18 August 2021

Tags:

  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

  * [About private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance)
    * [Choosing private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance/choosing-private-health-insurance)
    * [Getting the best from your private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance/getting-the-best-from-your-private-health-insurance)
    * [Private health insurance laws](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-laws)
    * [What we're doing about private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance/what-were-doing-about-private-health-insurance)
  * [What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)
  * [Private health insurance reforms](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)
  * [Operating rules](/topics/private-health-insurance/operating-rules-for-private-health-insurers-and-providers)
  * [The Prostheses List](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list)
  * [News](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

