Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Health alerts](/health-alerts)
  3. [Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19)
  4. [Treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments)

[COVID-19 treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/about)

# Updated eligibility for oral COVID-19 treatments

Most cases of COVID-19 are mild and can be managed at home. Some people who
are at higher risk may need specific antiviral treatments prescribed by their
healthcare provider. Learn about who is eligible for COVID-19 treatments.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Updated eligibility for oral COVID-19 treatments&url=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/eligibility?gclid=Cj0KCQjw98ujBhCgARIsAD7QeAgTSeXJE-36jN2xjMZHrNniBDmdUdPQ6FHNq5UhVllQRG9xja3AQjYaAi7VEALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/eligibility?gclid=Cj0KCQjw98ujBhCgARIsAD7QeAgTSeXJE-36jN2xjMZHrNniBDmdUdPQ6FHNq5UhVllQRG9xja3AQjYaAi7VEALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Updated eligibility for oral COVID-19 treatments&body=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/eligibility?gclid=Cj0KCQjw98ujBhCgARIsAD7QeAgTSeXJE-36jN2xjMZHrNniBDmdUdPQ6FHNq5UhVllQRG9xja3AQjYaAi7VEALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds)

Loading...

On this page

You can find translated information on oral COVID-19 treatments in [over 60
languages](/node/36167).

## Eligibility for oral COVID-19 treatments

Changes to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) eligibility criteria for
the oral treatments Lagevrio® (molnupiravir) and Paxlovid® (nirmatrelvir and
ritonavir) took effect on 11 July 2022, 1 November 2022, 1 January 2023 and
(for Paxlovid, only) 1 April 2023, to provide greater access for people who
are vulnerable to severe disease.

The current eligibility criteria for Paxlovid and Lagevrio reflect the
evidence that has been submitted to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory
Committee (PBAC) to date. The PBAC is an independent, expert body appointed by
the government, and its members include doctors, health professionals, health
economists and consumer representatives.

For more information on the latest eligibility criteria, please see the
Paxlovid and Lagevrio factsheets at [PBS
publications](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/publications#Covid19).

Find more information on the PBAC's:

  * [latest recommendations](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/industry/listing/elements/pbac-meetings/pbac-outcomes/recommendations-made-by-the-pbac-november-2022)
  * Web Outcome [Statements](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/industry/listing/elements/pbac-meetings/pbac-outcomes).

Find the full breakdown of clinical criteria and eligibility criteria, for:

  * [Paxlovid](https://www.pbs.gov.au/medicine/item/12996B-13147Y) **.**
  * [Lagevrio](https://www.pbs.gov.au/medicine/item/12910L-13144T).

Antiviral treatments taken as capsules or tablets may help stop COVID-19
infection from becoming severe. Courses of these antiviral treatments need to
be started as soon as possible after symptoms from COVID-19 begin.

People at higher risk of severe illness are eligible for antiviral treatments.
It is encouraged that you have an early discussion with your GP or nurse
practitioner about whether an oral antiviral suits your health needs and to
develop a COVID-19 plan if you test positive to COVID-19.

Learn more about [oral antiviral treatments for
COVID-19](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/oral).

### Senior Australians and First Nations people

If you test positive for COVID-19, you may be eligible for antiviral
treatments if you are:

  * 70 years of age or older, regardless of risk factors and with or without symptoms.
  * 60-69 years of age or older with **1** additional risk factor for developing severe disease. 
  * 50 years of age or older with **2** additional risk factors for developing severe disease or have had past COVID 19 infection resulting in hospitalisation.
  * First Nations people, 30 years of age or older and with **1** additional risk factor for developing severe disease or have had past COVID-19 infection resulting in hospitalisation.

Risk factors include:

  * living in residential aged care
  * living with disability with multiple conditions and/or frailty (but not limited to living in supported accommodation)
  * neurological conditions like stroke or dementia and demyelinating conditions e.g. multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barre Syndrome
  * chronic respiratory conditions including COPD, moderate or severe asthma
  * obesity or diabetes (type I or II requiring medication)
  * heart failure, coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathies
  * kidney failure or cirrhosis
  * living remotely with reduced access to higher level healthcare
  * past COVID-19 infection episode resulting in hospitalisation.

### People aged 18 years or older

If you test positive for COVID-19 and are moderately to severely
immunocompromised, you may be eligible for antiviral treatments.

Conditions include:

  * blood cancer or some red blood cell disorders (thalassemia, sickle cell disease)
  * transplant recipient
  * primary or acquired (HIV) immunodeficiency
  * chemotherapy or whole-body radiotherapy in the last 3 months
  * high dose corticosteroids or pulse corticosteroid therapy in the last 3 months
  * immunosuppressive treatments in the last 3 months
  * anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody treatment in the last 12 months/li>
  * cerebral palsy or Down Syndrome
  * congenital heart disease
  * living with disability with multiple conditions and/or frailty.

View the [Lagevrio](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/news/2022/03/lagevrio-
molnupiravir-pbs-listing)® and
[Paxlovid](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/news/2022/04/paxlovid-nirmatrelvir-and-
ritonavir-pbs-listing)® fact sheets on the PBS website for the full list of
risk factors.

From 1 January 2023, following the PBAC’s recommendation, patients who have
been previously hospitalised with COVID-19 disease are eligible for antiviral
treatments if subsequently re-infected.

## How to get COVID-19 oral treatments

If you test positive, you should contact your doctor for advice about
eligibility first.

If your doctor recommends oral antiviral treatments, you will need a
prescription.

The medications are available at your local pharmacy with a prescription.

Your doctor can send the pharmacist your prescription electronically so the
medications can be either collected by a friend or family member or delivered
to your home.

Find your [nearest pharmacy](https://www.findapharmacy.com.au/) with the oral
treatments.

## Finding an available GP appointment

To aid timely access to these treatments by vulnerable individuals, Medicare
telehealth services are now available with any GP for patients with a
confirmed COVID-19 diagnosis in the past 7 days. A long telehealth (phone)
consultation by a GP for prescribing COVID-19 antiviral treatments is also
available until 31 December 2023

If you can't get an appointment quickly to talk about treatments:

  * you can call the healthdirect helpline on **1800 022 222**
  * use the [Service Finder](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services) to search for one near you.

## Who should not have antiviral COVID-19 treatments?

If you are pregnant or breastfeeding you should not have oral COVID-19
treatments. Instead, ensure you are up to date with your [COVID-19
vaccinations](https://health.govcms.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated/pregnant-women).

If you have severe kidney or liver disease you should not have Paxlovid®
COVID-19 treatment. Talk to your healthcare provider about alternative oral
treatments.

## COVID-19 treatments and fertility

If you are prescribed the oral treatment Paxlovid® for COVID-19 and you are
also taking prescribed birth control 'the pill', you should use extra
contraception as the treatment may affect how the pill works.

Also, it is recommended you use effective forms of contraception:

  * during treatment and for 4 days after with Lagevrio®
  * during treatment and for 7 days after with Paxlovid®.

Men should use contraception during and for 3 months after taking Lagevrio®.

Talk to your healthcare provider about contraceptives and what is best for
your situation.

## Campaign resources

  * [About the COVID-19 oral antiviral treatments campaign](/news/covid-19-oral-antiviral-treatments "COVID-19 Oral Antiviral Treatments ")
  * View this [information sheet for more information about COVID-19 oral treatments for people with disability](/resources/publications/information-sheet-for-people-with-disability-covid-19-oral-medicines "Information sheet for people with disability – COVID-19 oral medicines").

Last updated:

19 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Coronavirus (COVID-19)](/health-alerts/covid-19)

  * [About the pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19/about)
  * [Case numbers](/health-alerts/covid-19/case-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Symptoms](/health-alerts/covid-19/symptoms)
  * [Protect yourself and others](/health-alerts/covid-19/protect-yourself-and-others)
  * [COVID-19 treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/about)
    * [Oral treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/oral)
    * [Eligibility for treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/eligibility)
    * [Treating your patients](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/treating-your-patients)
  * [Testing](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing)
  * [Testing positive, and close contacts](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing-positive)
  * [Domestic travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/domestic-travel)
  * [International travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/international-travel)
  * [Physical, mental and financial support](/health-alerts/covid-19/support)
  * [Advice for groups at greater risk](/health-alerts/covid-19/advice-for-groups-at-risk)
  * [For aged care sector](/topics/aged-care/advice-on-aged-care-during-covid-19)
  * [For health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)
  * [Government response](/health-alerts/covid-19/government-response)
  * [Translated information](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

