Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [Accessing Medicare for health practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)

[For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-
industry)

# Medicare access for doctors and specialists

For doctors or specialists to access Medicare rebates for their patients they
must satisfy Medicare’s requirements.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare access for doctors and specialists&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare access for doctors and specialists&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists)

Loading...

On this page

## ****Billing under Medicare****

Doctors and specialists who charge patients for Medicare Benefits Schedule
(MBS) under [Medicare](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/medicare) must:

  * complete [approved education](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/doctors-and-specialists/education-and-support#medical-doctor-and-specialist-education-and-training)
  * meet recognition requirements for [general practitioners](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/recognition-general-practitioner-to-provide-medicare-services?context=34076) or [specialists](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/recognition-specialist-or-consultant-physician-to-provide-medicare-services?context=34076)
  * register with the [Medical Board of Australia](https://www.medicalboard.gov.au/Registration.aspx)
  * have a [Medicare provider number](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/medicare-benefits-health-professionals/apply-provider-number-or-prescriber-number/if-youre-health-professional) to bill for services listed on the [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://mbsonline.gov.au) (MBS)
  * satisfy [Section 19AA](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19aa "Fellowship requirements under section 19AA") (fellowship requirements) for permanent residents and Australian citizens
  * satisfy [Section 19AB](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do/19ab) for overseas-trained doctors and foreign graduates.

Recent [policy reforms](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/national-medical-workforce-strategy-2021-2031) support and encourage
doctors working in general practice to achieve specialist qualifications.

## ****Doctors with fellowship****

Doctors who are permanent residents or Australian citizens must hold
[vocational recognition (fellowship)](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/doctors-and-specialists/about/19aa) to get a Medicare provider number
and access rebates.

## ****Doctors without fellowship****

Doctors who do not hold vocational recognition are those who don’t have a
fellowship. These doctors [attract a lower Medicare
rebate](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/doctors-and-
specialists/about/19aa#why-gaining-fellowship-is-important).

We support doctors to gain fellowship through the [Non-vocationally Registered
Fellowship Support Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/non-vr-fsp).

## ****International medical graduates****

Overseas-trained doctors and foreign graduates of an accredited medical school
can access Medicare benefits. To access Medicare benefits they must work in
certain locations and meet eligibility requirements under [section
19AB](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-
specialists/19ab "Section 19AB restricted doctors and access to Medicare") of
the national [Health Insurance Act
1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00174).

Last updated:

20 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
    * [Allied health professionals](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/allied-health-professionals)
    * [Dentists and dental practitioners](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/dentist-and-dental-practitioners)
    * [Doctors and specialists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists)
      * [Section 19AA fellowship requirements](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19aa)
      * [Section 19AB restricted doctors](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19ab)
    * [Nurse practitioners](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/nurse-practitioners)
    * [Optometrists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/optometrists)
    * [Participating midwives](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/participating-midwives)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

