Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)

[About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)

# What we're doing about Medicare

We work with agencies and committees to advise the Australian Government on
Medicare policy and subsidies. We support patients and healthcare providers
through various programs and initiatives. We protect the system’s integrity
through a strong compliance program.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we're doing about Medicare&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/what-we-do)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/what-we-do)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we're doing about Medicare&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/what-we-do)

Loading...

On this page

## **Policies and strategies**

We advise the Australian Government on:

  * Medicare policy
  * decisions about which health services to include on the [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/a-z) (MBS), with advice from the [Medical Services Advisory Committee](http://www.msac.gov.au/) (MSAC) and the [MBS Review Advisory Committee](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac) (MRAC)
  * decisions about which [medicines](/topics/medicines "Medicines") to include on the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS) Schedule, with advice from the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/industry/listing/participants/pbac) (PBAC)
  * the benefit amount for [each service that Medicare covers](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/a-z)
  * the thresholds for the [Medicare safety nets](/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets "Medicare safety nets") and [PBS safety nets](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/safety-net).

We jointly fund public hospitals with the state and territory governments,
under the [National Health Reform
Agreement](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/2020-25-national-health-reform-agreement-nhra).

We conduct [independent reviews and reforms](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-
reviews "Medicare reforms and reviews") to make sure our healthcare system
stays up to date with the latest research and practices.

## **Legislation and regulation**

Medicare is governed by laws that cover:

  * what can be claimed
  * who can claim
  * the amount of benefits
  * who manages payments and services
  * who administers Medicare.

These are the:

  * [Dental Benefits Act 2008](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00006) – governs the provision of dental services to children under the [Child Dental Benefits Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/child-dental-benefits-schedule) (CDBS)

  * [Health Insurance Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00174) – governs the [MBS](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) and [Shared Debt Recovery Scheme](/our-work/shared-debt-recovery-scheme "Shared Debt Recovery Scheme")

  * [Health Insurance (Medicare Compliance Shared Debt) Instrument 2019](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00174) – sets the recoverable amounts for the [Shared Debt Recovery Scheme](/our-work/shared-debt-recovery-scheme "Shared Debt Recovery Scheme")

  * [Human Services (Medicare) Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2020C00382) – sets out the functions and powers for the administration of Medicare, including benefit payments, audits and fraud investigations.

  * [National Health Act 1953](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00298) – governs the operations of the [PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home)

  * [National Health (Listing of Pharmaceutical Benefits) Instrument 2012](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2022C01061) – governs PBS benefits, including listed medicines, who can dispense or prescribe them, and how they can be prescribed.
  * [National Health (Pharmaceutical Benefits) Regulations 2017](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2022C01022) – allow the use of electronic prescriptions under the [PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home)
  * [Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2017C00269) – holds us accountable for payments we make under Medicare.

## **Accreditation and standards**

To access Medicare benefits, pathology and diagnostic imaging services listed
on the MBS must be accreditated and meet standards.

We develop policy and hold regulatory responsibilities for accreditation.

The [Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health
Care](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/) develops the standards and
oversees the accreditation process.

Read more about accreditation and standards for [Medicare eligibility for
diagnostic imaging and pathology](/node/43414#pathology-accreditation).

## **Compliance**

All health practitioners in Australia must [meet certain
requirements](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/medicare-
compliance/about/who-must-comply) to bill their patients under Medicare.

We have a strong program that protects Australia’s health payments system from
incorrect claiming, inappropriate practice, and fraud.

Read more about what we’re doing to [ensure compliance with Medicare
obligations](/topics/medicare/compliance "Medicare compliance"). This includes
identifying and investigating potential fraud, inappropriate practice and
incorrect billing under Medicare through different types of compliance
activities.

## **Initiatives and programs**

We have several initiatives and programs to support patients and healthcare
providers under Medicare, including:

  * [Better Access Initiative](/our-work/better-access-initiative "Better Access initiative") – gives Medicare rebates to help people access mental health professionals and care, regardless of where they live
  * [Practice Incentives Program](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program) – encourages general practices to provide quality care, increase capacity, and improve access and health outcomes for patients
  * [Quality Use of Pathology Program](/our-work/quality-use-of-pathology-program "Quality Use of Pathology Program ") – provides grants for projects that improve pathology referrals, pathology practices and patient care

  * [Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants](/our-work/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-scheme "Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme") – helps public and private radiation oncology providers to buy eligible radiation therapy equipment.

See all our [Medicare initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs
"Medicare initiatives and programs").

## **Stakeholder engagement**

We consult stakeholders and the public about matters related to Medicare
through our [Consultation Hub](https://consultations.health.gov.au/).

This includes when we conduct [reviews and reforms](/topics/medicare/reforms-
and-reviews "Medicare reforms and reviews") of various aspects of Medicare.

## **Who we work with**

### **Medical Services Advisory Committee**

The [MSAC](http://www.msac.gov.au/) assesses a range of medical services,
technologies and programs and provides advice on whether they should be
publicly funded, and what circumstances, if any, should apply to such funding.

Using the best available evidence, MSAC considers their:

  * comparative safety
  * clinical effectiveness
  * cost effectiveness.

The MSAC advises on whether they should be [listed on the
MBS](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home),
or subsidised through other programs.

### Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee

The [PBAC](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/industry/listing/participants/pbac)
assesses medicines and vaccines for clinical effectiveness, safety and cost
effectiveness (‘value for money’) compared with other treatments. It advises
on whether an item should be listed on the [PBS
Schedule](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) or funded under the National
Immunisation Program.

### Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care

The [Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health
Care](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/) helps improve health care in
Australia through:

  * national safety and quality standards
  * clinical care standards.

### Professional Services Review

The [Professional Services Review](https://www.psr.gov.au/) (PSR) reviews
possible inappropriate practice by health practitioners when they provide MBS
services or prescribe PBS medicines. This is part of our [compliance
program](/topics/medicare/compliance "Medicare compliance") to ensure the
integrity of our healthcare system.

### Services Australia

[Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare) supports
patients and health practitioners to access Medicare through:

  * [enrolment and cards](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/enrolling-medicare?context=60092)
  * [claims and payments](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-claim-medicare-benefit?context=60092)
  * information about [entitlements and rebates](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/whats-covered-medicare?context=60092).

Last updated:

19 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
    * [What Medicare covers](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers)
    * [Costs](/topics/medicare/about/costs)
    * [Safety nets](/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets)
    * [What we do](/topics/medicare/about/what-we-do)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

