Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and Charlie McKillop, ABC
Far North - 14 April 2023

Read the radio interview of Assistant Minister McBride and Charlie McKillop on
regional GPs; top of scope trials; Townsville University Hospital.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and Charlie McKillop, ABC Far North - 14 April 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-charlie-mckillop-abc-far-north-14-april-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-charlie-mckillop-abc-far-north-14-april-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and Charlie McKillop, ABC Far North - 14 April 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-charlie-mckillop-abc-far-north-14-april-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

14 April 2023

Date published:

14 April 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**CHARLIE MCKILLOP, HOST:** Local GPs feeling the strain both the work
pressure and the financial pressure. It's real for GPs right around the
region. And you know that because it's increasingly difficult to get an
appointment with one and when you do as the figures show fewer and fewer are
being offered the opportunity to bulk bill that service which is the promise
of our universal health care system. You are hearing from those doctors who
were talking to media in a busy Gordonvale street yesterday with reporters
including our own Alex Chambers from ABC Far North. The Assistant Minister for
Rural and Regional Health, Emma McBride, it sounds to me Minister that you are
going back to Canberra with a very long list of ideas there if the Treasurer
Jim Chalmers, is looking for ideas on how to ease the squeeze on our health
system. It sounds like you've got plenty of ideas.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Charlie, I was so pleased to meet with
Dr. Lisa Fraser in her practice in Gordonvale yesterday, and also to hear from
Dr. Rod Catton as well. What makes me optimistic about the future of our
regional and rural health care is doctors like Lisa and Rod, the commitment
they had to their patients and to their community and the quality care that
they're providing. And yesterday at the practice, I was able to meet a young
GP registrar, Sarah, and she said to me what attracted her to working in a
regional community was a placement she had with a doctor and where she saw
that in a rural community you can make an impact that you can really change
lives and that's what makes me optimistic about the future of rural and
regional health care.

**CHARLIE MCKILLOP, HOST:** But unfortunately, Sarah is only one of 10 per
cent of medical graduates who now leave their degree with an aspiration of
becoming a GP, that must be a serious concern.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** It is, and I'm a pharmacist myself and
I've worked in health care, and it was one of the main reasons that I put my
hand up to run for parliament because I saw dedicated capable staff under
enormous and growing strain, and from the nine years of the previous
government, the neglect we're now seeing and it starts in the outer suburbs
and continues across Australia where people can't get into a doctor, are
waiting weeks for a routine appointment and where Medicare bulk billing rates
are dropping.

**CHARLIE MCKILLOP, HOST:** What are the practical things that you can do and
that you hope will be in the budget that's going to ease things up for these
doctors?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Minister Mark Butler stood up the
Strengthening Medicare Taskforce because it is one of the top priorities of
our government to make sure that wherever you live, that you can get access to
timely, affordable and quality care. And that Strengthening Medicare Taskforce
is backed by a $750 million fund, which will go to the recommendations to make
sure that health care is accessible and affordable. We've also started with
junior doctors from the first of January this year. If you're a doctor who
chooses to practice in a rural or remote community, your HELP debt will be
wiped. And we've heard from the department that 800 doctors are likely to take
up that opportunity. We're also looking at the single employer model so that
you can have a portability of entitlements from the state health system
through to working in general practice. So there's some practical measures
that were put into place already.

**CHARLIE MCKILLOP, HOST:** Federal Assistant Health Minister Emma McBride is
your guest on ABC Far North. So far, some of the things that you've done,
Minister haven't been all that popular with GPs. You've just mentioned that
you come from a pharmacy background yourself but making it easier for
pharmacists to issue scripts for a wider range of medical problems, for
example, that's gone down like a lead balloon with some GPs did that come up
yesterday?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** It wasn't something that was raised
yesterday, but I did have the opportunity yesterday to visit some pharmacies
including Alive Pharmacy and Wholelife Pharmacy to see to meet with
pharmacists who have enrolled in this trial in far north Queensland. And if
your starting point is patient care, and looking at accessibility and
affordability of care, I can see why looking to the top of scope of practice
is something that particularly in regional and remote communities will mean
that people can get timely care that avoids hospitalization for UTIs , which
are one of the main reasons that someone would end up in an emergency
department that are avoidable and treatable.

**CHARLIE MCKILLOP, HOST:** Hang on, what are UTIs?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Sorry, urinary tract infection.

**CHARLIE MCKILLOP, HOST:** Oh, gotcha. So that's the kind of scope of the
medical issues that pharmacists increasingly now are going to be able to deal
with. Is that the problem that the doctors have? Is that this is a band aid?
It's not a not fixing the issue, which is that they ought to be seeing these
patients, not pharmacists.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** What we're looking at is we need to make
sure that all health practitioners can work to their full scope of practice,
and we need them working in team based care because we know that's the right
kind of care. So I would like to see physiotherapist, dieticians, all health
care practitioners to be able to use all the skills and training they have to
make sure that every Australian, wherever they live, get that timely and
quality care

**CHARLIE MCKILLOP, HOST:** Assistant Minister McBride, I doubt that you are
about to preempt or try and steal the Treasurer's thunder on my program one
month out from him delivering his first federal budget but we were speaking
with the new chief executive of the Cairns hospital yesterday. She's getting
down to the nitty gritty of planning the transition and what it might look
like to a Cairns University Hospital. What does your Government intend to do
to make that a reality and on what timeline?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** I had the chance just earlier in the
week to visit Townsville University Hospital, at the moment, the only tertiary
hospital in northern Australia. And what our government is very determined to
do is to work with the state government, to work with the hospital and health
services, to make sure that there's the right resources, the right type of
care for people right across Australia, particularly in the most remote parts
of Australia. So I'm sure Minister Jason Clare and Treasurer Jim Chalmers have
this front of mind to make sure that every Australian can get access to
quality and timely care. We set up Medicare, or us universal health care is
our top priority and we know that it's in a really difficult state and it's
something that we're realistic about and we need to turn around in a safe in a
safe way.

**CHARLIE MCKILLOP, HOST:** Federal Assistant Health Minister Emma McBride,
thank you very much for being with us on breakfast.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Good to be with you Charlie.

Tags:

  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

