Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)
  3. [Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

[Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

# Protecting Older Australians – COVID-19 Update 14 February 2023

In this issue: Message from the Ministers to Aged Care Providers, ATAGI advice
on 2023 COVID-19 vaccine booster, Webinar – aged care COVID-19 update and
more.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Protecting Older Australians – COVID-19 Update 14 February 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/protecting-older-australians-covid-19-update-14-february-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/protecting-older-australians-covid-19-update-14-february-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Protecting Older Australians – COVID-19 Update 14 February 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/protecting-older-australians-covid-19-update-14-february-2023)

Loading...

Date published:

14 February 2023

Audience:

Health sector

On this page

## **COVID-19 vaccination**

### **Message from the Ministers to Aged Care Providers**

The Minister for Health and Aged Care, the Hon Mark Butler MP and the Minister
for Aged Care, the Hon Anika Wells MP, have written to aged care providers to
let them know the Australian Government has accepted the recommendation of
ATAGI and will open a 2023 COVID-19 vaccine booster dose to those eligible
from Monday, 20 February 2023.

The recommended booster dose will bolster residents' protection from severe
illness, hospitalisation, or death from COVID-19 over the winter season. The
Ministers’ strongly urge you to arrange for your residents to receive this new
booster as soon as they become eligible.

Please work with your existing primary care providers as they are key to the
delivery of on-site COVID-19 booster vaccinations as residents become
eligible.

You can read the full [message from the Ministers](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=928b857602&e=b5edfcca7d).

### **ATAGI advice on 2023 COVID-19 vaccine booster**

The Australian Government has accepted advice from the Australian Technical
Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI) that all adults who have not had a
COVID-19 booster or a confirmed case in the past six months can now get
another booster to give them additional protection against severe illness from
COVID-19 regardless of the number of prior doses received. This particularly
applies to:

  * All adults aged 65 years and over
  * Adults aged 18-64 years who have medical comorbidities that increase their risk of severe COVID-19, or disability with significant or complex health needs.

The 2023 COVID-19 vaccine booster dose will open to those newly eligible from
Monday, 20 February 2023.

The 2023 booster will increase residents’ protection from severe illness,
hospitalisation, or death from COVID-19, especially over the winter period.

Providers are encouraged to start working with your existing primary care
provider to plan for residents to receive this new booster as soon as they are
eligible. For further information on the ATAGI decision, please visit the
Department's [website](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=78d4f05d38&e=b5edfcca7d).

If you need COVID-19 vaccination support, please contact us at
[RACFVaccineClinics@health.gov.au](mailto:RACFVaccineClinics@health.gov.au)
and we will liaise with the relevant Primary Health Network to determine what
assistance is available through primary care providers in your area.

## **Webinar – aged care COVID-19 update**

The first webinar for this year will be held on **Thursday 23 February 2023,
1pm - 2pm (AEDT)**.

In this session you will hear from Professor Michael Kidd and Deputy Chief
Medical Officer and Professor Alison McMillan, Chief Nursing and Midwifery
Officer, on COVID-19 safe behaviours and PCR testing practices. The Department
will also provide an update on the latest advice from the Australian Technical
Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI) on the 2023 COVID-19 booster doses.

Please [register to attend](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=978a2ac211&e=b5edfcca7d).

This session will include a moderated Q&A session with Departmental officials
and we encourage you to submit questions in advance through the registration
link.

### **More information**

To find more information please visit our website or email us if you have any
questions:

  * Email: ****[AgedCareCOVIDLiaison@health.gov.au](mailto:AgedCareCOVIDLiaison@health.gov.au)
  * Website: ****[health.gov.au/covid-advice-aged-care](https://health.us10.list-manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=b139337160&e=b5edfcca7d)

## **Reminder: Use of personal protective equipment (PPE)**

Aged care providers should make sure that all aged care homes and in-home care
services have appropriate stocks of PPE available and arrangements with
commercial suppliers to replenish PPE stocks as required.

Residential aged care services should encourage staff and visitors to wear a
face mask when indoors and in close contact with other people at a residential
care home.

All in-home care services should provide their staff with PPE to use in each
consumer's home, including any additional PPE required to support a consumer
who has tested positive to COVID-19.

During an outbreak, aged care homes should extend the provision of PPE to all
visitors and increase the PPE worn by staff. This includes gloves, gowns, eye
protection and N95 face masks as well as dedicated stations to put on and take
PPE off safely.

Particulate filter respirators (N95 or P2 masks) offer greater protection
against airborne pathogens. The type of mask chosen should be informed by a
risk assessment as part of a suite of measures in line with the hierarchy of
controls in infection prevention and control.

Aged care workers who wear N95 masks should complete fit testing before first
use and perform a fit check each time they are used. Providers are encouraged
to organise fit testing for new staff and should ensure a buddy system is in
place for checking.

Under state and territory workplace safety legislation, all aged care services
are responsible for providing a safe working environment for their staff and
visitors. This includes providing appropriate PPE as well as providing
training on how to use and dispose of it.

## **Reminder: Reporting COVID-19 cases in your service**

Residential aged care providers are required to report **ALL** COVID-19 cases
for residents, staff and visitors immediately to the Department of Health and
Aged Care via the[ My Aged Care COVID-19 Support
Portal](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=18774fa488&e=b5edfcca7d).

With the State and Territory network Case Management inboxes no longer being
monitored for updates to COVID cases, closures or requests for Commonwealth
support, the My Aged Care COVID-19 Support Portal replaces email notification
of a positive case in your facility.

You should also report COVID-19 positive cases to your Public Health Unit
(PHU) immediately, if required. PHUs may require detailed individual-level
information to assist aged care services.

## **Reminder: Changes to how services request Commonwealth COVID-19 Support**

From **1 February 2023** , requests for Commonwealth supports are now managed
through a central inbox, with State and Territory Network Case Management
inboxes no longer being monitored.

Emails sent to a case management inbox will receive an automatic reply with
the following information on the revised process.

The new centralised contact point to request any of the following
**Commonwealth supports** is
[AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au](mailto:AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au).
Your request will be referred to the relevant area for action.

Further information on how to access supports is outlined below:

### **Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits**

The Australian Government is providing [RAT kits to all residential aged care
homes](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=c01f909d30&e=b5edfcca7d)
for surveillance screening of staff and visitors. These will be delivered
without you needing to place a request.

Should you wish to opt out of receiving this supply or alter the quantity
and/or frequency of supply please contact the Department by email:
[AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au](mailto:AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au).

### **PCR testing**

PCR testing may be required for residents and staff during an outbreak.

In-reach COVID-19 PCR testing continues to be available through pathology
providers to residential aged care homes that are managing COVID-19 outbreaks,
including through a dedicated service provided by Sonic Healthcare (Sonic)
until 30 April 2023.

It remains a requirement that any requests for COVID-19 PCR testing should
only be made where a medical practitioner GP has determined the testing is
necessary to inform the clinical management of the resident or where the
public health unit has determined PCR testing is needed to support outbreak
management activities. Requests for in-reach PCR testing from Sonic can be
made by emailing the Department:
[AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au](mailto:AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au).

Access to Medicare subsidised PCR testing can also be undertaken by regular
respiratory PCR pathways for your residential aged care home following request
from a GP or other primary care practitioners. These pathways should be
prioritised.

### **Oral antivirals treatments**

The oral antivirals Lagevrio® and Paxlovid® are available through the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. Please ensure your COVID-19 positive residents
have access to oral antivirals, prescribed by a medical practitioner as a
priority.

If you need assistance accessing a prescriber, consider HealthDirect’s free
helpline [1800 022 222](tel:1800022222) or the online [Service
Finder](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=ca10f2d753&e=b5edfcca7d).

The [Find a Pharmacy](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=3506d8d3bf&e=b5edfcca7d)
website is available for sourcing antivirals through community pharmacy
channels, your Primary Health Network may also be able to assist connect you
to a local prescriber.

If you are in outbreak and are unable to access antivirals quickly, please
contact the Department via email:
[AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au](mailto:AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au).

### **Surge workforce**

Residential aged care homes that need temporary surge workforce can contact
the Department once all other attempts to access staff from your
organisation’s internal or agency workforce have been unsuccessful. In the
first instance the provider should aim to self-manage their workforce where
possible.

For further information on surge workforce, please refer to [COVID-19 Aged
Care Workforce Measures FAQs](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=e2f9693cdf&e=b5edfcca7d).

For processing of workforce requests please contact the Department via email:
[AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au](mailto:AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au).

### **Personal protective equipment (PPE)**

The supply of PPE, through the NMS, continues to be available until 31
December 2023 to support residential aged care homes that are in outbreak when
commercial supplies are unavailable or insufficient.

If your residential aged care home is experiencing an outbreak and you have
exhausted all attempts to source PPE from commercial suppliers, you can
request additional PPE through the [My Aged Care Provider
portal](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=174990dbd6&e=b5edfcca7d
"My Aged Care service provider portal").

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19](/diseases/covid-19)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

