Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

[Pathology](/topics/pathology)

# About pathology

Health professionals use pathology tests to help them diagnose disease.
Specially trained staff perform these tests in laboratories. Learn about
pathology tests, the cost of pathology services, who can provide pathology
services and the laws and regulations that apply.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About pathology&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/about-pathology)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/about-pathology)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About pathology&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/pathology/about-pathology)

Loading...

On this page

## What pathology is

Your doctor or health professional may request specific pathology tests to
help them understand, diagnose and treat a health issue you are having to be
able to determine the appropriate treatment.

Specially trained staff perform these tests in accredited pathology
laboratories. They collect samples from you, such as blood, urine, saliva or
faeces.

Learn more about pathology tests on:

  * [healthdirect](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/understanding-pathology-tests)
  * [Pathology Tests Explained](https://pathologytestsexplained.org.au/).

## Why it is important

Pathology tests provide information on many types of health conditions,
including:

  * allergies
  * chronic conditions, such as diabetes
  * infections, including COVID-19 and other diseases
  * different types of cancer.

Test results give your doctor or health professional the information they need
to:

  * diagnose your health issue
  * manage your condition.

## The pathology process

When your doctor decides you need a pathology test they will fill in a
pathology request form. These can be either paper copy or electronic.

Pathology collection centre staff usually take the samples, but in some cases
your doctor or their practice staff can also do this. Make sure you follow any
instructions, such as fasting before the test.

Trained staff test the samples at an accredited pathology laboratory and
provide the test results to the requesting doctor or health professional.

Once your test results are available, your doctor may need you to make an
appointment so they can:

  * discuss the test results with you
  * organise any follow-up tests you may need.

You can ask that your results are added to your My Health Record. Learn more
on the [My Health Record website](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/).

## Cost of pathology

[Medicare](/topics/medicare "Medicare") subsidises the costs of pathology
services listed in the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS). If patients wish to
claim Medicare benefits for services, the laboratory must be an accredited
pathology laboratory.

Medicare benefits are only payable for pathology services if:

  * clinically relevant and requested by a doctor or health professional
  * if provided by or on behalf of an [approved pathology practitioner](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/approved-pathology-practitioners?context=20), in a relevant [accredited pathology laboratory](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/accredited-pathology-laboratories?context=20) that is operated by an [approved pathology authority](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/approved-pathology-authorities?context=20).

A list of pathology tests on the Medicare Benefits Schedule can be accessed
from [MBSonline](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/). It’s a good idea to ask your
doctor about any costs that Medicare may not cover before you arrange to have
the test. Some tests have conditions, such as limits on how many you can have
in a year.

If your doctor requests a test be done more than once on the same day,
Medicare will only cover the first test ([rule
3](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=PN.4.2&qt=noteID&criteria=rule%203)).
To overcome this, your doctor must request a ‘rule 3 exemption’ on your
pathology request form.

## Who can provide pathology services

Only accredited pathology laboratories can provide pathology services. In
order to be accredited, a pathology laboratory must meet specified quality
standards.

Learn more about the [pathology accreditation process](/node/43414#pathology-
accreditation).

You can choose your own pathology provider, regardless of which provider has
supplied the pathology request form your doctor uses. The exception to this is
when your doctor has asked that a specific pathology provider do the tests.
They may do this for clinical reasons.

All branded pathology request forms – whether they are paper copy or
electronic – must include a [patient choice advisory
statement](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=PN.2.2&qt=noteID&criteria=pn%2E2%2E1%2C%20pn%2E2%2E2%2C%20pn%2E2%2E3)
that outlines this.

Learn more about [pathology services for health
professionals](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/pathology-services-for-
health-professionals?context=20) on Services Australia’s website.

## Pathology laws and regulations

National legislation that regulates pathology services provided under Medicare
includes the:

  * [Health Insurance Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00174)

  * [Health Insurance Regulations 2018](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2022C00795)
  * [Health Insurance (Pathology Services Table) Regulations 2020](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2022C00664)
  * [Health Insurance (Pathology) (Fees) Act 1991](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2016C00834)

  * [Health Insurance (Approved Pathology Specimen Collection Centres) Tax Act 2000](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2018C00480)

  * [Health Insurance (Accredited Pathology Laboratories – Approval) Principles 2017](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2022C00777)
  * [Health Insurance (Approvals for Eligible Collection Centres) Principles 2020](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2020L01179).

Last updated:

9 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Pathology](/topics/pathology)

  * [About pathology](/topics/pathology/about-pathology)
  * [What we're doing about pathology](/topics/pathology/what-were-doing-about-pathology)
  * [Pathology compliance](/topics/pathology/compliance)
  * [Resources](/topics/pathology/pathology-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/pathology/pathology-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

