Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Minister for Health and Aged Care – interview on ABC Radio Perth – 16 May
2023

Read the transcript of Minister Butler's interview with Nadia Mitsopoulos
about Medicare Urgent Care Clinics, bulk billing and strengthening Medicare
reforms.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Minister for Health and Aged Care – interview on ABC Radio Perth – 16 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-interview-on-abc-radio-perth-16-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-interview-on-abc-radio-perth-16-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Minister for Health and Aged Care – interview on ABC Radio Perth – 16 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-interview-on-abc-radio-perth-16-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

16 May 2023

Date published:

16 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**NADIA MITSOPOULOS, HOST:** Now you might remember a few months back, the
Federal Government announced it will open some new Medicare Urgent Care
Clinics in WA. They will bulk bill and they are designed to give people
immediate care and keep them out of emergency departments. Well, the first
will open in Morley in June to take pressure off hospitals in the city,
there'll be another in Joondalup, another in Rockingham, Murdoch, Midland,
Bunbury and Broome. Now the Health Minister is in Perth today to explain how
they will work, and I spoke to Mark Butler a little earlier this morning.  
  
**MINISTER FOR HEALTH, MARK BUTLER:** Good morning.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : You’re here to update us on when those Medicare Urgent Care
Clinics will be ready to go. When will the first one be open and where will it
be?  
  
**BUTLER:** Well, the first one will be delivering services by the end of
June, and it's a clinic in Morley called the Rudloc Road Medical Centre. It
was able to win a competitive tender process that was overseen by the WA
Government and also the Primary Health Networks in Perth, which are
essentially funded by the Commonwealth to oversee general practice and other
primary care services. So it will be delivering services by the end of June
and the remainder – the other 6 Urgent Care Clinics in WA – will be rolled out
over the course of the next several months. But certainly all of them will be
delivering services sometime in 2023.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : And we should mention those under the other ones are
Joondalup, Rockingham, Murdoch, Midland, Bunbury and Broome. Is that right?  
  
**BUTLER:** That’s right.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : The concern is that people will go to these clinics rather
than their GP, because they'll be free. How do you stop that happening?  
  
**BUTLER:** I remember having a talk with you about this last time I was on
your programme, Nadia. We've been very clear in negotiations with all of the
state governments to have only limited range of services being delivered by
the Urgent Care Clinics. So the sorts of things where you do need, as the name
suggests, urgent care. So, your kid falls off the skateboard and busts their
arm, or you get a deep cut or you’ve got a very urgent infection. It's not
designed to replace the sort of ongoing care you get from your GP, so they
will have a clear scope of service. They can only bill certain items on the
Medicare Benefits Schedule. So the sorts of things I talked about: those non-
life-threatening emergencies. And frankly, if people are rolling up to these
clinics to get the sort of standard care you would get from your GP, they'll
be politely asked to go back to their GP.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : Ok, that when that was another concern that it could there
be an issue with continue continuity of care. So if you need a script refilled
or if you're, I don't know, if there might be a mental health issue, for
instance, or something like that, you cannot go to an urgent care clinic for
those kind of things.  
  
**BUTLER:** That's right, they've got a very clear set of operational
guidelines that we negotiated with state governments. But the problem is, as
you’d know and your listeners would know, when there's something that's urgent
and you need care within a couple of hours it's often just impossible to get
into your own GP within 2 hours. I mean, people are finding it difficult to
get into their GP within a day or 2 and if it's after hours or if it's on the
weekend, because there's no obvious access point in primary care for a general
practice or something, so often around the country people are ending up in
emergency departments and often waiting hours and hours and putting even more
pressure on the hospital system that across the country – indeed, across the
world really – is under real pressure after 3 years of a pandemic.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : What will the capacity be of these clinics? I mean, how many
patients will they be able to see? Will there be a minimum amount of doctors?  
  
**BUTLER:** It will vary according to where it is. Obviously will be a bit
different in the regions compared to what you would expect to be quite a busy
centre in the cities, but they're going to have quite substantial capacity.
There's been a good tender process. We've allocated additional money in this
year's Budget that we delivered last week to the money that we originally
intended to use to fund these clinics. Because as we talked through the
process with state governments and with other primary care providers, it was
clear that a full range of services - not just the care from a doctor and a
nurse – that we would have pathology, diagnostic imaging, obviously if your
kid’s fallen on their skateboard, you want to know whether the fracture their
arm. So X-ray facilities, sometimes other diagnostic imaging as well, will be
available. It’s quite a new model for Australia. It's very common in other
countries, to have this idea of a service somewhere between standard general
practice on the one hand and a fully-equipped hospital emergency department,
on the other. I think I said when I was last on your program, in America, for
example, there are more urgent care clinics than there are Starbucks coffee
houses. So this is very common in other parts of the world. But we want to
step it up properly evaluate the make sure we've got the model right, and then
hopefully a little while down the track, we will be in a position to expand
the model further.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : Will staffing them be a challenge?  
  
**BUTLER:** This is really up to the providers that have put in a tender. The
important thing is: we're not building new clinics. We're really inviting
expressions of interest from existing general practices, by and large – or
there might be an Aboriginal Medical Service in some regions or a community
health centre – but an existing primary care service that wants to take its
practice up to the next level. So they'll tap into existing staffing resources
they might have to employ some additional people. As I've got around the
country, there's a really high level of interest – not just from practices,
but from workers, as well. People who might have done some time working as
emergency physicians in a hospital setting are telling me they like the idea
of deploying those skills in more of a primary care setting out in the
community. So I don't think we'll have any trouble getting the workforce to do
this, but obviously across the board, there's a real challenge that we're
having getting enough doctors and nurses and allied health professionals into
the system right now. And that has been made much worse, as you know, by the
experience of 3 years of pandemic.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : I'm speaking this morning to the federal Health Minister
Mark Butler on ABC Radio Perth and WA. Just on another issue: in the Budget
last week, you increase the incentive for GPs to bulk bill from $6 to about
$21. We did speak to some GPs, including some in the regional areas, who said
this will actually not be enough for them to go back to bulk billing. Does
that concern you?  
  
**BUTLER:** It does. And unfortunately, you will always find a few businesses
that say it's not enough to shift the dial for them. But equally, the Prime
Minister and I yesterday were at a practice where they told us, and told the
media, that they were on the point of having to introduce a gap fee for
children and for other health card holders and because of the decision we made
last week, they've shelved that. They’re going to continue to bulk bill all of
those patients. I've had other practices tell me exactly the same: the
financial pressure really was building on a lot of these practices. But our
decision to triple the bulk billing incentive was described by the College of
General Practitioners as a 'game changer' is really relieving a lot of that
pressure. Now there are thousands of general practice businesses across the
country. I don't pretend that every single one is going to take the decision
I'd want. But it's been very clear to me from the feedback I've got from the
sector that this is – as they describe it – a real game changer.

It’s important also to point out, Nadia, that the increase that you talked
about in the bulk billing incentive, from about $7 to about $21 in the cities,
is very substantial for those city practices. But it's even bigger in the
regions. The increased to the bulk billing incentive increases the further you
get away from the major cities. So into some of the more remote parts of WA,
it's an increase of, like, about 55% in the fee that a general practice would
get for seeing a bulk billed patient. And this is a huge increase and I'm sure
make a real difference.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : But the impact is going to be, do you agree, rather than
getting doctors to reintroduce bulk billing into their clinics, it's going to
stop doctors dumping bulk billing. So you're not necessarily going to get more
doctors bulk billing.  
  
I think you'll see a mix of reactions. I think you will see doctors who have
taken a decision that they didn't want to take. No doctor wants to shelve bulk
billing that I've ever spoken to. They do it when they utterly feel it's
necessary. And so I think there will be our practices that in the very recent
past have decided to introduce gap fees, particularly for example for kids or
for pensioners, they will revisit that. Because what we're doing now is
properly reimbursing them for bulk billing and it's, you know, it's a game
changer for the whole sector. It’s a game-changer for millions of mums and
dads who want confidence they can take their sick kid to a doctor and be bulk
billed and millions of pensioners and others. But also I think a real game-
changer for general practice that has felt like it's not been the subject of
enough support and respect and attention from Canberra, over the last decade.
I hope they now feel that they've got a government in Canberra that sees them
as utterly central to a properly functioning healthcare system.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : Is this it then, when it comes to tinkering with Medicare,
is this all they're going to get for a while now?  
  
**BUTLER:** I don't see this as tinkering. In addition to tripling the bulk
billing incentive – a huge investment. We are also delivering the biggest
across-the-board increase to rebates. So every single rebate across the
Medicare Benefits Schedule - so not just general practice visits, but X-rays
and pathology and specialist visits and all the rest. We are delivering the
biggest across-the-board increase to Medicare since Paul Keating was Prime
Minister more than 30 years ago. And also several billion dollars of
additional investment, essentially to deliver real change in the system. I
think I said to you when we last talked, I'm not interested in simply putting
more money into a system that's not meeting the needs of patients today. I
mean, this system just hasn't changed enough since the 1980s when the patient
community is very different to what it is today. It's older today, it has more
complex, chronic disease. And so there's also a lot in the package we
delivered last week to deliver more multidisciplinary care, more care after
hours and the sorts of things that doctors and patient groups and nursing
groups have been calling for, for a long period of time. It's just never been
delivered.  
  
**MITSOPOULOS** : I'll leave it there, Minister, enjoy your time in Perth and
thank you for talking to me.  
  
**BUTLER:** Good to talk to you. See you later.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

