Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  4. [Getting your COVID-19 vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)

[Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination)

# Where you can get vaccinated

Find out where COVID-19 vaccines are being rolled out across Australia.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Where you can get vaccinated&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/locations)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/locations)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Where you can get vaccinated&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/locations)

Loading...

On this page

## Book a COVID-19 vaccination now

[Find a clinic and book](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-
services)

Everyone in Australia aged 5 years and over is eligible for a free COVID-19
vaccination.

The vaccine clinic finder is a complete list of clinics in each State and
Territory, including general practices and pharmacies. Answer simple questions
to find a suitable clinic near you and book a vaccination.

The [ATAGI recommended doses and vaccines](/resources/publications/atagi-
recommended-covid-19-vaccine-doses "ATAGI recommended COVID-19 vaccine doses")
outlines which vaccines and doses are recommended for each age and population
group.

## **General practices**

More than 5,700 general practices are part of the vaccine rollout, providing
coverage and support for local communities and in-reach services for
residential aged care, residential disability services.

## **Community pharmacies**

Community pharmacies provide broader access to COVID-19 vaccinations and help
address barriers to access in some parts of rural and regional Australia.

More than 3,500 community pharmacies are now vaccinating across Australia.

## Commonwealth Vaccination Clinics

Commonwealth Vaccination Clinics provide GP-led, clinical COVID-19 vaccination
services to anyone in Australia, including [people who don't have a Medicare
card](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card
"COVID-19 vaccination if you don't have a Medicare card").

## Aboriginal Controlled Community Health Services

[Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Community Controlled Health
Services](/resources/apps-and-tools/map-of-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-
islander-health-and-medical-services "Map of Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander health and medical services") (ACCHSs) provide culturally safe
vaccination care for regular clients and others in the community.

Most ACCHSs are taking part in the vaccination program.

See more COVID-19 vaccine information for [Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous "COVID-19 vaccination
information for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people").

## State and territory clinics

Many states and territories are offering pop-up clinics and other services
based on local needs or for priority groups.

See state-specific updates and advice on your state or territory's website:

  * [New South Wales](https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/Infectious/covid-19/vaccine/Pages/community.aspx)
  * [Victoria](https://www.coronavirus.vic.gov.au/book-your-vaccine-appointment)
  * [Queensland](https://www.qld.gov.au/health/conditions/health-alerts/coronavirus-covid-19/protect-yourself-others/covid-19-vaccine/book)
  * [Western Australia](https://rollup.wa.gov.au/articles/where-to-get-your-covid-19-vaccination)
  * [South Australia](https://www.sahealth.sa.gov.au/wps/wcm/connect/public+content/sa+health+internet/conditions/infectious+diseases/covid-19/vaccine/getting+vaccinated/vaccination+hubs)
  * [Tasmania](https://www.coronavirus.tas.gov.au/vaccination-information/covid-19-vaccination/Book-your-vaccine)
  * [Australian Capital Territory](https://www.covid19.act.gov.au/stay-safe-and-healthy/vaccine/book-a-vaccination-appointment)
  * [Northern Territory](https://coronavirus.nt.gov.au/stay-safe/booking-your-covid-19-vaccine)

## Aged care in-reach

[Primary Health Networks](/our-work/phn "Primary Health Networks") (PHNs) are
working with Commonwealth Vaccination Clinics and GPs to vaccinate residential
aged care workers (and residents where needed).

See our [policy guidance on aged care vaccination in-
reach](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-scope-of-vaccine-services-
for-in-reach-and-static-clinics "COVID-19 vaccination – Scope of vaccine
services for in-reach and static clinics").

Last updated:

30 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
    * [Where you can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/locations)
    * [If you don't have a Medicare card](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card)
    * [Before your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/before)
    * [After your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/after)
    * [Booster doses](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)
    * [If you’ve already had COVID-19](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/vaccination-after-covid-19-infection)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

