Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# National Immunisation Program

The National Immunisation Program provides free vaccines to eligible people to
help reduce diseases that can be prevented by vaccination

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=National Immunisation Program&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-immunisation-program)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-immunisation-program)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=National Immunisation Program&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-immunisation-program)

Loading...

On this page

The National Immunisation Program aims to increase national immunisation
coverage to help reduce diseases that can be prevented by vaccination.

The program provides free essential vaccines to protect eligible people
against a range of diseases.

Read more about why immunisation is important in [About
immunisation](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/about-
immunisation).

## Program governance

The program is an established collaborative program involving the Australian
Government along with State and Territory Governments.

The [National Partnership Agreement on Essential
Vaccines](https://federalfinancialrelations.gov.au/agreements/national-
partnership-essential-vaccines) formalises the relationship between the state,
territory and Australian Governments.

The Australian Government is responsible for National immunisation policy and
the purchase of vaccines covered by the program.

The State and Territory Governments are responsible for coordination and
oversight of immunisation service delivery and distribution of vaccines.

The strategic development and delivery of the program is overseen by a range
of committees and advisory bodies. See [Immunisation policy and governance
arrangements](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/about-
immunisation/immunisation-policy-and-governance).

## Accessing National Immunisation Program vaccines

Access to free National Immunisation Program vaccines requires a person to
hold or be eligible for a [Medicare
card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-enrol-and-
get-started-medicare/enrolling-medicare#whocan).

The program offers free essential vaccines to eligible people including:

  * infants and children
  * adolescents
  * pregnant women
  * adults and seniors
  * First Nation’s people
  * people with certain medical conditions that puts them at greater risk of certain disease.

The program also covers free catch-up vaccinations if they were missed in
childhood for:

  * people aged less than 20 years old
  * refugees and humanitarian entrants of any age.

The program funds all vaccines linked to family assistance payments.

## National Immunisation Program schedule

Find details of the vaccines you may be eligible for.

[Access the schedule](/resources/publications/national-immunisation-program-
schedule-landscape)

## Getting National Immunisation Program vaccines

You can get National Immunisation Program vaccines from a range of vaccination
providers.

See our page on [getting vaccinated](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated) for more information about:

  * where you can get vaccinated
  * if you need to pay
  * who can be vaccinated
  * what to expect at your vaccination visit
  * vaccine side effects.

Last updated:

8 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

