Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Medical devices

Medical devices can be used to diagnose, prevent, treat and monitor medical
conditions. They include things like surgical equipment, syringes, gloves,
pacemakers, baby incubators and implants. Find out what we’re doing to make
sure these products are safe to use.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medical devices&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medical-devices)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medical-devices)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medical devices&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medical-devices)

Loading...

###  [ Regulating medical devices ](https://www.tga.gov.au/medical-devices-
overview)

The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) regulates the supply of medical
devices in Australia.

###  [ Action plan for medical devices ](/resources/publications/an-action-
plan-for-medical-devices-improving-australias-medical-device-regulatory-
framework)

The action plan is a 3-part strategy to strengthen Australia’s regulatory
system whilst continuing to be patient focused and have greater transparency.

###  [ Reporting problems with medical devices
](https://www.tga.gov.au/reporting-problems)

You should report all problems with medical advices to the Therapeutic Goods
Administration (TGA).

###  [ The Prostheses List ](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-
list)

Find out what the Prostheses List includes, when we update it, and how to
apply to list products on the Prostheses List or change current listings.

## **What** medical devices are

Medical devices are defined in the [Therapeutic Goods Act
1989](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2021C00376) as any of the
following items for human use:

  * instrument
  * apparatus
  * appliance
  * software
  * implant
  * reagent
  * material or other article. 

Medical devices are used to:

  * diagnose, prevent, monitor, predict outcomes of, treat, or ease symptoms of medical conditions 
  * replace or enhance parts of the body 
  * control or support conception 
  * examine specimens from the human body. 

These products play an important role in health care, so it’s important
they’re safe to use and work properly.

The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) [regulates the supply of medical
devices](https://www.tga.gov.au/sme-assist/medical-devices-regulation-
introduction) in Australia.

### **In vitro diagnostic devices**

In vitro diagnostic (IVDs) are typically tests that are used to examine human
samples to assist with diagnosing and managing a patient’s health. IVDs are
[regulated as medical devices](https://www.tga.gov.au/sme-assist/medical-
devices-regulation-introduction). They include reagents, kits, calibrators,
controls, laboratory analysers and software, as well as tests used at the
point of care, or in the home, such as COVID-19 rapid antigen self-tests and
glucose monitoring tests by diabetics.

## **Classifying medical devices**

The TGA classifies medical devices into classes. Classes are associated with
the level of risk they pose, and affect how the TGA assesses and regulates
them.

Learn more about the [classification of medical
devices](https://www.tga.gov.au/medical-devices-overview#classification).

## **Cost of medical devices**

Medicare covers the cost of some medical devices, see what Medicare covers on
the [Services Australia
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicine-and-
medicare?context=60092).

### **The Prostheses List and private health insurance**

By law, private health insurers must pay a benefit for a product on the
Prostheses List such as:

  * hip, knee or shoulder joint replacement devices 
  * vascular and cardiac stents 
  * human tissue items, like bone or bone fragments and heart valves 
  * cardiac remote monitoring systems. 

The [Prostheses List Advisory
Committee](https://health.govcms.gov.au/committees-and-groups/prostheses-list-
advisory-committee-plac) (PLAC) is responsible for assessing and recommending
medical devices and their costs for inclusion on the Prostheses List.

We are working with insurers, hospitals, medical device companies and
clinicians to [make the list more efficient, more transparent and better able
to keep up with technological advances](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list/the-prostheses-list-
reforms).

Learn more about the [Prostheses List](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list) and see the [current
items.](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/prostheses-list)

### **The Stoma Appliance Scheme**

The [Stoma Appliance Scheme](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/stoma-appliance-scheme) provides free stoma appliances and products
to people who have a stoma (ostomates). This helps them live their lives
normally without added financial stress.

The [Stoma Appliance Scheme
Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/stoma-appliance-
scheme-schedule) lists all the items subsidised under the scheme.

The [Stoma Product Assessment Panel](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-
groups/stoma-product-assessment-panel) is responsible for assessing and
recommending medical devices and their costs for inclusion in the Stoma
Appliance Scheme Schedule.

Learn more about the [Stoma Appliance
Scheme](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/stoma-appliance-
scheme) and see the [current subsidised
items.](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/stoma-appliance-
scheme)

## **Safety monitoring and reporting**

Manufacturers, suppliers, and the TGA [continue to
monitor](https://www.tga.gov.au/sme-assist/medical-devices-regulation-
introduction#pmv) medical devices after they are approved for supply. The
majority of medical devices are included in the Australian Register of
Therapeutic Goods ([ARTG](https://www.tga.gov.au/australian-register-
therapeutic-goods)).

## Latest news

## Latest news

![Older man in hospital bed being cared for by two healthcare
workers](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/images/news/2020/01/5-million-
for-research-into-personalised-lung-cancer-treatments.jpg?itok=8kGsJcxL)

###  [ $5 million for research into personalised lung cancer treatments
](/news/5-million-for-research-into-personalised-lung-cancer-
treatments?language=en)

30 January 2020

![Image of a group of people in a
meeting](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/group-of-
people-in-a-meeting.jpg?itok=U74xvCtd)

###  [ Would you like to play a role in ensuring the safety of Australia’s
therapeutic goods? ](/news/would-you-like-to-play-a-role-in-ensuring-the-
safety-of-australias-therapeutic-goods?language=en)

2 August 2019

![Logo for Therapeutic Goods Administration \(TGA\)
](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/therapeutic-goods-
administration-tga-logo.jpg?itok=RmM-3639)

###  [ Proposed Regulatory Action for Textured Breast Implants
](/news/proposed-regulatory-action-for-textured-breast-implants?language=en)

12 July 2019

[View more medical devices
news](/news?f%5B0%5D=h_related_health_topics%3AMedical%20devices&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC)

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![Stoma Appliance Scheme utilisation and expenditure data quarterly report –
January to March 2023](/sites/default/files/2023-04/stoma-appliance-scheme-
utilisation-and-expenditure-data-quarterly-report-january-to-march-2023.jpg)

### [Stoma Appliance Scheme utilisation and expenditure data quarterly report
– January to March 2023 ](/resources/publications/stoma-appliance-scheme-
utilisation-and-expenditure-data-quarterly-report-january-to-
march-2023?language=en)

2023

Report

This document shows how much we spent in January to March 2023 on stoma
appliances and products under the Stoma Appliance Scheme in the 2022-2023
financial year.

![Cover image](/sites/default/files/2023-03/stoma-appliance-scheme-peristeen-
plus-application-form_0.jpg)

### [Stoma Appliance Scheme – Peristeen Plus application form
](/resources/publications/peristeen-plus-application-form?language=en)

1 April 2023

Form

Use this form to apply for access to Peristeen Plus on the Stoma Appliance
Scheme. This form should be completed by the applicant or their authorised
person as well as the applicant’s authorised health professional.

![Cover page CIRG outcome note – 28 October
2022](/sites/default/files/2023-03/cirg-outcome-note-28-october-2022.jpg)

### [CIRG outcome note – 28 October 2022 ](/resources/publications/cirg-
outcome-note-28-october-2022?language=en)

27 March 2023

Report

The outcomes of the Clinical Implementation Reference Group (CIRG) Meeting 8.

![""](/sites/default/files/2023-02/prostheses-list-reform-consultation-
paper-4-a-and-4-b-stakeholder-feedback-report.jpg)

### [Prostheses List Reform Consultation Paper 4(a) and 4(b) – Stakeholder
feedback report ](/resources/publications/prostheses-list-reform-consultation-
paper-4a-and-4b-stakeholder-feedback-report?language=en)

8 February 2023

Report

This report provides an analysis of stakeholder feedback requested through
webinars and written responses to the Prostheses List reforms consultation
paper 4 (a) and 4 (b).

[View more medical devices
resources](/resources?f%5B0%5D=h_related_health_topics%3AMedical%20devices&sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

