Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Diagnostic imaging](/topics/diagnostic-imaging)

[Diagnostic imaging](/topics/diagnostic-imaging)

# Diagnostic imaging resources

Links to our resources related to diagnostic imaging.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Diagnostic imaging resources&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/diagnostic-imaging/resources)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/diagnostic-imaging/resources)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Diagnostic imaging resources&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/diagnostic-imaging/resources)

Loading...

## Resources

![""](/sites/default/files/2022-11/reducing-overuse-of-diagnostic-imaging-
project-report.jpg)

### [Reducing Overuse of Diagnostic Imaging – Project report
](/resources/publications/reducing-overuse-of-diagnostic-imaging-project-
report?language=en)

3 November 2022

Report

This report summarises the main results of the Reducing Overuse of Diagnostic
Imaging project. We collaborated with the Wiser Healthcare research consortium
on this project .

![""](/sites/default/files/2022-11/medicare-benefits-schedule-online-
diagnostic-imaging-item-and-rule-changes.png)

### [Medicare Benefits Schedule Online – Diagnostic imaging item and rule
changes ](/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-schedule-online-
diagnostic-imaging-item-and-rule-changes?language=en)

18 October 2022

Fact sheet

Fact sheet and quick reference guide on changes to the Medicare Benefits
Schedule (MBS) diagnostic imaging items and rules.

![Capital Sensitivity Exemption – Subsequent application form \(September\)
cover](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/09/capital-sensitivity-
exemption-subsequent-application.png)

### [Capital sensitivity exemption – Subsequent application
](/resources/publications/capital-sensitivity-exemption-subsequent-
application?language=en)

20 September 2022

Form

Use this form to apply for the continuation of the payment of Medicare
benefits for services provided on diagnostic imaging equipment.

![""](/sites/default/files/2022-11/medicare-benefits-schedule-online-changes-
to-eligibility-for-magnetic-resonance-imaging-equipment.png)

### [Medicare Benefits Schedule Online – Changes to eligibility for Magnetic
Resonance Imaging equipment  ](/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-
schedule-online-changes-to-eligibility-for-magnetic-resonance-imaging-
equipment?language=en)

19 September 2022

Fact sheet

This fact sheet explains the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) changes to
eligibility for Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) equipment.

![COVID-19 vaccination – Geographic vaccination rates – SA3 – 15 September
2022](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/09/covid-19-vaccination-
geographic-vaccination-rates-sa3-15-september-2022.png)

### [COVID-19 vaccination – Geographic vaccination rates – SA3 – 15 September
2022 ](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-geographic-vaccination-
rates-sa3-15-september-2022?language=en)

16 September 2022

Report

This report lists the percentage of people who have been vaccinated against
COVID-19, by SA3. The percentages are further broken down by geographic
regions and whether they've had one dose or are fully vaccinated.

![""](/sites/default/files/2022-11/medicare-benefits-schedule-online-requests-
for-diagnostic-imaging-services-versus-referrals-for-other-services-under-
medicare.png)

### [Medicare Benefits Schedule Online – Requests for diagnostic imaging
services versus referrals for other services under Medicare
](/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-schedule-online-requests-for-
diagnostic-imaging-services-versus-referrals-for-other-services-under-
medicare?language=en)

16 September 2022

Fact sheet

This fact sheet outlines the difference between a request and a referral.

![Case study – Billing of diagnostic and pathology services in emergency
departments and for public
patients](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/08/case-study-billing-
of-diagnostic-and-pathology-services-in-emergency-departments-and-for-public-
patients.jpg)

### [Case study – Billing of diagnostic and pathology services in emergency
departments and for public patients ](/resources/publications/case-study-
billing-of-diagnostic-and-pathology-services-in-emergency-departments-and-for-
public-patients?language=en)

1 August 2022

Fact sheet

This case study about diagnostic and pathology services will help you improve
your Medicare billing practices.

![Application Form – Capital Sensitivity Exemption – Initial
Application](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/09/capital-
sensitivity-exemption-initial-application.png)

### [Capital sensitivity exemption – Initial application
](/resources/publications/capital-sensitivity-exemption-initial-
application?language=en)

15 June 2022

Form

Use this form to apply for an exemption from capital sensitivity where there
are unforeseen delays to replace/upgrade diagnostic imaging equipment.

![Cover image for New Diagnostic Imaging Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\)
items 61563 and 61564](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/06/new-
diagnostic-imaging-medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-items-61563-and-61564.png)

### [New Diagnostic Imaging Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) items 61563 and
61564 ](/resources/publications/new-diagnostic-imaging-medicare-benefits-
schedule-mbs-items-61563-and-61564?language=en)

18 May 2022

Fact sheet

This fact sheet outlines information about 2 new Medicare Benefits Schedule
(MBS) items for patients with prostate cancer.

![Changes to MBS rules for diagnostic imaging services – capital sensitivity
cover image](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/06/changes-to-mbs-
rules-for-diagnostic-imaging-services-capital-sensitivity.png)

### [Changes to MBS rules for diagnostic imaging services – capital
sensitivity ](/resources/publications/changes-to-mbs-rules-for-diagnostic-
imaging-services-capital-sensitivity?language=en)

2 May 2022

Fact sheet

This fact sheet outlines changes to capital sensitivity arrangements for
diagnostic imaging from 1 May 2022.

### Pages

  * Current page 1 
  * [ Page 2 ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to page 2")
  * [ Next page Next › ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to next page")
  * [ Last page Last » ](?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC&page=1 "Go to last page")

[View all
resources](/resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

Last updated:

30 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Diagnostic imaging](/topics/diagnostic-imaging)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Diagnostic imaging](/topics/diagnostic-imaging)

  * [About](/topics/diagnostic-imaging/about)
  * [What we’re doing about diagnostic imaging](/topics/diagnostic-imaging/what-were-doing-about-diagnostic-imaging)
  * [MRI and PET unit locations](/topics/diagnostic-imaging/MRI-and-PET-locations)
  * [Resources](/topics/diagnostic-imaging/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/diagnostic-imaging/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

