Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Strengthening Medicare Taskforce appointed

The Australian Government is making it easier for Australians to see a doctor
by strengthening Medicare, the critical foundation of our health system.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Strengthening Medicare Taskforce appointed&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/strengthening-medicare-taskforce-appointed)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/strengthening-medicare-taskforce-appointed)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Strengthening Medicare Taskforce appointed&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/strengthening-medicare-taskforce-appointed)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

28 July 2022

Date published:

28 July 2022

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The Albanese Government is making it easier for Australians to see a doctor by
strengthening Medicare, the critical foundation of our health system.

After a decade of Liberal cuts and attacks on Medicare, primary health care is
in crisis in Australia.

The Albanese Government is delivering on a key election commitment, the
Strengthening Medicare Taskforce.

The Strengthening Medicare Taskforce is bringing together Australia’s health
policy leaders. The diverse membership has been drawn from across the health
professions, and includes consumer, rural and regional and Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander representatives.

The Taskforce will work to deliver concrete results through its
recommendations, including:

  * Improved patient access to general practice, including after-hours.
  * Improved patient access to GP-led multidisciplinary team care, including nursing and allied health.
  * Greater patient affordability.
  * Better management of ongoing health conditions including chronic conditions.
  * Decreased pressure on hospitals.

The Albanese Government is backing the Taskforce by investing $750 million to
deliver the highest priority reforms to Medicare.

The $220 million Strengthening Medicare GP Grants program will also see more
resources invested in our GP practices.

Together, these commitments make up an almost $1 billion investment to ensure
Australians can see a doctor when they need to.

The Strengthening Medicare Taskforce is chaired by Health and Aged Care
Minister Mark Butler. He is joined by:

  * Dr Omar Khorshid, President, Australian Medical Association
  * Adjunct Professor Karen Price, President, Royal Australian College of General Practitioners
  * Dr Sarah Chalmers, President, Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine
  * Ms Leanne Wells, Chief Executive Officer, Consumers Health Forum of Australia
  * Dr Dawn Casey PSM, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, National Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation
  * Ms Karen Booth, President, Australian Primary Health Care Nurses Association
  * Ms Annie Butler, Federal Secretary, Australian Nursing and Midwifery Federation
  * Ms Amanda Cattermole PSM, Chief Executive Officer, Australian Digital Health Agency
  * Professor Stephen Duckett, Honorary Enterprise Professor, Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, The University of Melbourne
  * Associate Professor Learne Durrington, Chief Executive Officer,  
WA Primary Health Alliance

  * Professor Adam Elshaug, Director, Centre for Health Policy, Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, The University of Melbourne
  * Dr Steve Hambleton AM, general practitioner
  * Dr Walid Jammal, general practitioner
  * Dr Nigel Lyons, Deputy Secretary, NSW Health
  * Mr Antony Nicholas, Board Chair, Allied Health Professions Australia
  * Adjunct Professor Ruth Stewart, National Rural Health Commissioner

The Taskforce will begin work immediately.

**Quotes attributable to Health and Aged Care Minister Mark Butler:**

“Our health system is under pressure, our doctors need support, and we need to
reduce pressure on hospitals.

“The average out-of-pocket cost for GP services has risen 60 per cent over the
past decade.

“The Albanese Government is committed to restoring affordable and accessible
health care.

“Our Strengthening Medicare Taskforce are a diverse group of health experts
and consumer representatives who will provide practical advice to help us
start fixing our health care and make it easier for Australians to see a
doctor.”

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

