Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Health alerts](/health-alerts)
  3. [Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19)

[Coronavirus (COVID-19)](/health-alerts/covid-19)

# Coronavirus (COVID-19) translated information

Learn about coronavirus (COVID-19), the important steps you should take to
help protect yourself, your family and your community, and find out what to do
if you or a family member tests positive.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Coronavirus \(COVID-19\)  translated information&url=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Coronavirus \(COVID-19\)  translated information&body=https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information)

Loading...

Information in your language  Albanian - ShqipAmharic - አማርኛArabic -
العربيةArmenian - ՀայերենAssyrian - ܐܵܬܘܿܪܵܝܵܐBengali - বাংলাBosnian -
BosanskiBulgarian - БългарскиBurmese - မြန်မာChin Hakha - Laiholh
(Hakha)Chinese, Simplified - 简体中文Chinese, Traditional - 繁體中文Croatian -
HrvatskiDari - دریDinka - ThuɔŋjäŋDutch - NederlandsEnglishFinnish -
SuomiFrench - FrançaisGerman - DeutschGreek - ΕλληνικάGujarati -
ગુજરાતીHazaragi - هزاره گیHebrew - עבריתHindi - हिन्दीHmongIndonesian - Bahasa
IndonesiaItalian - ItalianoJapanese - 日本語Karen - ကညီကျိၥ်KhmerKirundi -
RundiKorean - 한국어Kurdish - KurdîLaotian - LaoMacedonian - МакедонскиMalayalam
- മലയാളംMaltese - MaltiNepali - नेपालीPashto - پښتوPersian, Farsi -
فارسیPolish - PolskiPortuguese - PortuguêsPunjabi - ਪੰਜਾਬੀRohingya -
RuáingaRomanian - RomânăRussian - РусскийSamoan - SamoaSerbian - СрпскиSinhala
- සිංහලSlovak - SlovenčinaSlovenian - SlovenščinaSomaliSpanish -
EspañolSwahili - KiswahiliTagalogTamil - தமிழ்Thai - ภาษาไทยTibetan -
བོད་སྐད།Tigrinya - ትግርኛTurkish - TürkçeUkrainian - УкраїнськаUrdu -
اردوVietnamese - Tiếng Việt

On this page

## About COVID-19

COVID-19 is the disease caused by the coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. In some people
it causes mild illness, but in others it can cause severe illness and death.

## COVID-19 symptoms

Most people with COVID-19 experience only mild symptoms. These can be managed
with your regular pain medication.

**[Check your
symptoms](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/translated/coronavirus-
covid-19-identifying-the-symptoms-other-languages)**

Common symptoms | Less common symptoms | Severe symptoms  
---|---|---  
  
fever or high temperature

|

headache

|

difficulty breathing  
  
feeling very tired | sore throat | blue lips or face  
coughing – sometimes with phlegm | mild shortness of breath | pain or pressure
in the chest  
loss of taste and/or smell | muscle or joint pains | cold and clammy, or pale
and mottled, skin  
runny nose | fainting or collapsing  
chills | being confused  
nausea/vomiting | becoming difficult to wake up  
diarrhoea | little or no urine output  
  
If you have any of the severe symptoms above, **call 000 immediately**. Tell
the phone operator that you have COVID-19 with severe symptoms, and that you
need an ambulance to be sent to you.

[**Call 000**](tel:000)

If you don’t speak English ask for ‘ambulance’ and stay on the line to request
an interpreter.

If you still have symptoms of COVID-19 more than 6 weeks after you tested
positive, talk to your health care provider.

## How to protect yourself and others

Everyone can play a part in slowing the spread of COVID-19. To protect others
and yourself, you should:

  * stay home if you are unwell
  * practise good hygiene
  * practise physical distancing and staying 1.5 metres away from others
  * [wear a mask](/resources/publications/coronavirus-covid-19-do-i-need-to-wear-a-mask "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) – Do I need to wear a mask?")
  * get tested and if you are positive it is recommended you stay home.

The best way to protect yourself, your family and your community from COVID-19
is to [get vaccinated](https://health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccine-information-in-your-language).

## People who are at higher risk

Some people may get very sick if they get COVID-19. People at higher risk
could include:

  * older people
  * people who already have health issues
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
  * people with disability.

## Getting tested

If you have any COVID-19 symptoms, even if mild, you should get tested as soon
as possible.

There are 2 types of tests that can show if you have COVID-19:

  * polymerase chain reaction, also known as PCR
  * rapid antigen tests, also known as RAT.

If you need a PCR test, your doctor or health care provider can request one
for you.

You can buy rapid antigen tests online, and from some supermarkets, retail
outlets and petrol stations for private use.

### When to get tested

You should get a COVID-19 test if you:

  * have COVID-19 symptoms – even if your symptoms are mild
  * you have had COVID-19 and developed new COVID-19 symptoms after 28 days
  * have been advised to do so by a health professional.

### After your test

Once you get tested, you should stay at home if you have symptoms to reduce
the risk of infecting others.

Learn more about [getting tested for COVID-19](/node/32891).

## What to do if you test positive

If you test positive for COVID-19, you should stay at home until your symptoms
stop.

You must not visit [high-risk settings](https://www.health.gov.au/health-
alerts/covid-19/protect-yourself-and-others#visiting-highrisk-settings) such
as aged and disability care services, and hospitals, unless you need immediate
medical care.

For more advice on what to do if you test positive for COVID-19 visit your
state or territory health department website.

  * [Australian Capital Territory](https://www.covid19.act.gov.au/)
  * [New South Wales](https://www.nsw.gov.au/covid-19)
  * [North Territory](https://coronavirus.nt.gov.au/stay-safe)
  * [Queensland](https://www.qld.gov.au/health/conditions/health-alerts/coronavirus-covid-19)
  * [South Australia](https://www.sahealth.sa.gov.au/wps/wcm/connect/Public+Content/SA+Health+Internet/)
  * [Tasmania](https://www.coronavirus.tas.gov.au)
  * [Victoria](https://www.coronavirus.vic.gov.au)
  * [Western Australia](https://www.healthywa.wa.gov.au)

### **COVID-19 vaccination**

If you have had COVID-19 and have recovered, you should still get your next
COVID-19 vaccine.

It is recommended that people who have recovered from COVID-19 get their next
vaccine dose 6 months after a confirmed infection.

Most cases of COVID-19 can be managed at home - especially in vaccinated
people. Read more about what to expect:

  * [What to expect when you have COVID-19](/node/33122)

### Breastfeeding if you have COVID-19

If you are feeling well enough, you can continue to breastfeed. Antibodies
will pass from you to your baby.

If you are worried, or have questions, you can call the [Breastfeeding
Helpline](https://www.breastfeeding.asn.au/breastfeeding-helpline). The
helpline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

[**1800 686 268**](tel:000)

If you need an interpreter, call the Translating and Interpreting Service
[**131 450**](tel: 131450) and ask them to telephone the Breastfeeding
Helpline.

### If your child has COVID-19

Having your child diagnosed with COVID-19 can be stressful. It is rare for
children to become severely sick with COVID-19. Most children will have no
symptoms, or only mild symptoms.

If you are worried about your child’s symptoms contact your doctor as soon as
possible.

If your child is showing severe symptoms, call 000 immediately. If you don't
speak English, ask for 'ambulance' and stay on the line to ask for an
interpreter.

## **COVID-19 oral treatments**

COVID-19 oral treatments are an option for treating mild to moderate COVID-19
in adults. These are medicines that are taken as tablets or capsules.

COVID-19 oral treatments are not suitable for everyone. You can only get them
if you have a doctor's prescription.

Find out more about [treatments for COVID-19](/node/36167).

## Where to get help

The National Coronavirus Helpline provides information and advice about what
to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19. The line operates 24 hours a
day, 7 days a week.

[**1800 020 080**](tel:000)

**** If you need an interpreter call the National Coronavirus Helpline, and
choose **option 8.**

### Financial support

Financial support may be available. Visit [Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/if-you-need-payment-during-
coronavirus-covid-19?context=60352) and click ‘Translate’ to find information
in your language.

### Physical and mental health support

If you have a Medicare card you may be able to access telehealth services via
phone or video.

If you are experiencing severe mental health issues from COVID-19, you can
access extra mental health sessions.

To make a telehealth appointment or access mental health sessions call your
health care provider.

### If you need help now

If you need help now there are a range of mental health services you can call:

  * [Lifeline](https://health.gov.au/contacts/lifeline)
  * [Beyond Blue Support Service](/node/44944)
  * [Kids helpline](https://health.gov.au/contacts/kids-helpline-contact)
  * [Suicide Call Back Service](https://health.gov.au/contacts/suicide-call-back-service)

If you do not feel safe at home due to domestic violence contact the police in
your state or territory or call [1800 RESPECT](tel:1800737732) (1800 737 732).

TIS National can connect you to these services if you need a translator.

[**131 450**](tel: 131450)

## Resources

View more translated [COVID-19
information](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=diseases%3ACOVID-19).

Last updated:

6 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Coronavirus (COVID-19)](/health-alerts/covid-19)

  * [About the pandemic](/health-alerts/covid-19/about)
  * [Case numbers](/health-alerts/covid-19/case-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Symptoms](/health-alerts/covid-19/symptoms)
  * [Protect yourself and others](/health-alerts/covid-19/protect-yourself-and-others)
  * [COVID-19 treatments](/health-alerts/covid-19/treatments/about)
  * [Testing](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing)
  * [Testing positive, and close contacts](/health-alerts/covid-19/testing-positive)
  * [Domestic travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/domestic-travel)
  * [International travel](/health-alerts/covid-19/international-travel)
  * [Physical, mental and financial support](/health-alerts/covid-19/support)
  * [Advice for groups at greater risk](/health-alerts/covid-19/advice-for-groups-at-risk)
  * [For aged care sector](/topics/aged-care/advice-on-aged-care-during-covid-19)
  * [For health and disability sector](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-advice-for-the-health-and-disability-sector)
  * [Government response](/health-alerts/covid-19/government-response)
  * [Translated information](/health-alerts/covid-19/coronavirus-covid-19-translated-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

