Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  3. [Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

[Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

# Interview with Minister Kearney and Greg Jennett, ABC Afternoon Briefing -
14 February 2023

Read the transcript of Minister Kearney's interview with Greg Jennett on RBA
Governor, interest rates, Housing Australia Future Fund, COVID and aged care
and vaccines.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Interview with Minister Kearney and Greg Jennett, ABC Afternoon Briefing - 14 February 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/interview-with-minister-kearney-and-greg-jennett-abc-afternoon-briefing-14-february-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/interview-with-minister-kearney-and-greg-jennett-abc-afternoon-briefing-14-february-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Interview with Minister Kearney and Greg Jennett, ABC Afternoon Briefing - 14 February 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/interview-with-minister-kearney-and-greg-jennett-abc-afternoon-briefing-14-february-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-
mp_1.jpg?itok=uQuoas5f)

**The Hon Ged Kearney MP**  
Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

14 February 2023

Date published:

15 February 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**GREG JENNETT:** Joining us Assistant Health Minister, Ged Kearney, welcome
Ged. And Shadow Health Minister, Anne Ruston back with us in the studio. A bit
of a health flavour emerging, we might come to that in a moment. Ged, to you
first on the points Stephen Jones raises there, he says we, we believe there
is already enough pressure in the pipeline from what the Reserve Bank’s done.
That is fairly naked pressure being exerted on the Governor and the board,
isn’t it?

**GED KEARNEY, ASSISTANT MINISTER FOR HEALTH AND AGED CARE:** At the end of
the day, the Governor and the RBA operate independently, they do what they
have to do. I agree with Stephen, it's a tough job what they do. Our job is to
manage the fiscal side of things, while Stephen was acknowledging that yes
there is a lot of pressure on households at the moment, and increasing
interest rates will put more pressure on household budgets, it's our job to
make sure we deliver that household relief and I do believe the Treasurer is
very focused on that, very focused on inflation and making sure any measures
we do implement to give households budget relief is not inflationary. He has
thought this through very carefully and he’s been talking in recent days about
relief - cheaper medicines, cheaper childcare, capping energy increases,
energy costs, making sure they are affordable. And then of course he is
talking about repairing with the National Reconstruction Fund, which is
looking to the future and the long-term - making sure people have skills so we
can give them good, decent, well-paid jobs. Of course, we are all about people
having decent pay and making sure they can have good wages when they do work.
And then restraint in the Budget from our perspective, so that’s our job.

**JENNETT:** Some of those things don't come through, in the Budget’s case
until May. Stephen Jones appears to be directing some comments in the near
term, possibly ahead of the next monthly meeting.

**KEARNEY:** Well that’s up to the RBA Governor if he wants to listen to that,
as I said he is completely independent and there is nothing we can do about
the decision. It’s our job is to make sure we handle things on the fiscal side
of the Budget and make sure we do all we can to relieve pressure on
households.

**JENNETT:** Alright Anne, your side has been relentless in pursuing this in
the House of Reps questions and I suppose also through the Estimates process,
do you see anything untoward in members of the Government, in this case the
Assistant Treasurer, in letting the Reserve Bank know that maybe it needs to
stop and pause to wait and see the effect of what is already done?

**ANNE RUSTON, SHADOW HEALTH MINISTER:** The main point is the Reserve Bank is
independent, treasurers and finance ministers have gone before us, have always
taken the view that the independence of the Reserve Bank was one of the great
strengths of how it operated with Government. And clearly monetary policy is
the domain of the Reserve Bank and fiscal policy the domain of the Government
and I think I would say many of the actions taken by the Government so far
have actually been inflationary not deflationary so I would be calling on the
Government to have a think about some of the measures they are talking about,
as comments from the Assistant Minister about the Reconstruction Fund. These
kind of really huge sums of money that are hidden off balance sheet are still
stimulus to the economy, so I think we do need to have a look at some of the
fiscal measures that the Government is putting in place. Back to your point
about the Reserve Bank, it is independent and it should be treated as such.

**JENNETT:** Just the Reconstruction Fund, and we can bracket with that the
Housing Australia Future Fund, your party has taken a decision to oppose both.
Now the headline figures on those are enormous - $10 billion dollars and $15
billion, yet what they pump out an annual spending is much smaller in the case
of the housing fund, only up to $500 million a year, spread across all the
states, and all the housing requirements. That's not a huge amount of money,
are you certain it would be inflationary to the housing market?

**RUSTON:** It’s going to be one of two things, neither of which will deliver
the outcome being sought here. One is if it does deliver those sorts of
outcomes and you have to remember before it is inflationary, we have two pay
$400 million a year interest on it before one cent is even sent to housing,
but if that occurs and we do get the kind of dividend we are talking about
then it will be inflationary. The reality this is $10 billion of increased
borrowing, increased borrowing will increase inflation, increased inflation
puts up interest rates and that hits the bottom line of people's mortgage
repayment. It's a bit of a tricky financial engineering exercise to stick $10
billion here and $15 billion there into off-balance sheet funds. If you want
to spend the money, be transparent, be honest, stick it on your balance sheet
and let Australians see that in the Budget.

**JENNETT:** And could you end up doing that anyway Ged - we had a discussion
earlier with other guests, the Greens pointing out that the earnings from the
future fund weren’t great in the last financial year, in fact they were
negative. So if your Housing Fund didn't produce the earnings you wanted it
to, the Government would just have to spend from the Budget anyway wouldn’t
it, to meet its housing commitments and would you?

**KEARNEY:** The answer from certain sectors of the Parliament are to just put
more money in, to make it bigger and better, but what we are seeing here Greg
is we are going from zero investment in affordable and social housing. We have
a homelessness crisis right now, to a $10 billion investment. We are
absolutely positive it will deliver homes, not only homes that are affordable
and accessible but homes for people who are affected by domestic violence, who
need somewhere to live, veterans. This is a massive social investment - that I
have to say only Labor Government ever really deliver big reforms like this,
and we are absolutely confident that it will have outcomes that will address
the crisis that people are facing right now. I don't know how anybody in their
right mind could possibly object to us having a go and actually trying to fix
a really serious problem that Australians are facing right now, that is
housing affordability. Even Anne would agree that homelessness is a big issue
right now, housing affordability is a big issue and this is a really bonafide,
all of Government, it’s across all levels of Government attempt to fix that.
Let's get together and make it happen and make it work.

**JENNETT:** Just about your point about debt and deficit, or borrowing, if
you like Anne, to fund these functions, were you still in Government, you
wouldn’t have an Australian Housing Future Fund but you would still have to
fund housing, wouldn’t you through the agreements with the states, so you
would still be borrowing since we are in deficit? Aren't we talking about
essentially the same thing?

**RUSTON:** I think it's about thing transparent. Ged just made a comment that
is a $10 billion investment – it’s not a $10 billion investment, it’s a $10
billion dollars of borrowing against the Australian taxpayer, which they are
estimating may produce up to $500 million a year. The track record in
governments about providing 300,000 new homes through that mechanism, the
support provided when we were in Government through community housing
providers, and in my place in Social Services was proud to deliver the Safe
Places Program which enabled over 6,500 women and children escaping domestic
violence every year to have a safe place to go. You can deliver this kind of
social housing, particularly in the case of people escaping domestic violence
without sticking the mortgages of people up. I'm not questioning the need to
make sure that we have social and affordable housing and for people escaping
domestic violence, but I'm just questioning the means by which it is done, and
also the fact we don't know whether the fund will deliver one house.

**KEARNEY:** But the beauty of this fund Anne is that it is a sovereign fund
and it will be there in perpetuity. It won't rely on good people like yourself
to say let's invest in housing, it will be there for perpetuity, for future
Governments that can actually exist and be assured, people can be assured that
this will be there to be invested in nothing else but housing and that it's
the beautiful thing about the fund.

**JENNETT:** And I think the Morrison Government did similar things with the
Medicare funding account, didn’t it, setting aside pots, well certainly if you
want another comparison there is the original future fund for Commonwealth
public servants. Let's move on, since we did start on the Reserve Bank, Ged
are you in that band of Labor MPs who think that Phillip Lowe's time as
Governor will and should expire in the middle of this year?

**KEARNEY:** It's entirely a responsibility of the Treasurer and he has made
it clear that no decision is going to be made until the turn is up until the
Governor’s turn up which I think is September? – October.

**JENNETT:** \- October, with a decision made before that. But there is a
level of anxiety it seems coming from backbenchers in particular who are
finding a voice - none has demanded his term come to an end but they seem
anxious about?

**KEARNEY:** That really is a decision for the Treasurer and I will leave that
up to him.

**JENNETT:** Alright Anne Ruston, you are not a decisionmaker in this anymore
but what do you read from the tea leaves here, that there is frustration in
the Government over Phil Lowe’s performance, do you share any of that?

**RUSTON:** Well I think the most disappointing thing is the undermining the
of integrity of the Reserve Bank is an unfortunate consequence of people
making public comments about decisions that have been made and intentions into
the future, I would probably say to the Government it’s probably best to
respect the independence of the Reserve Bank to maintain its integrity and
then as Ged said, it is up to the Treasurer what he intends to do. This
ongoing commentary doesn't serve any process in terms of confidence of the
Australians in their Reserve Bank.

**JENNETT:** There is a process underway there, we will watch how that unfolds
in the months ahead. And because you are both in the health space, we thought
we might switch over to themes that you’re more familiar with. Ged, we saw
announcements from Mark Butler, your senior portfolio Minister, around extra
COVID measures in aged care, incentive payments coming back for vaccine
rollout. Is any of that working? Are levels of doctor and nursing attendants
actually picking up yet?

**KEARNEY:** In aged care facilities?

**JENNETT:** Yes in aged care.

**KEARNEY:** This is a brand new announcement so it is a little bit early to
tell if it is actually working, but the reason we are doing that is because
the last wave of COVID as you would know, the last wave we thought it was
going to be short and sharp but it lasted longer than we thought, started in
October, peaking in December, it is coming down now, thank goodness. We’re
going to take learnings from that and what happened and how we can do things
better if there is another wave. But specially for our most vulnerable people,
those in aged care, that’s where we really want to focus a lot of attention.
The Minister did announce some extra incentives for GPs and pharmacists to
actually assist nursing homes, to go in and help deliver the vaccine, the next
round of booster which I think is incredibly important.

**JENNETT:** That would be a process that hasn't kicked in yet. But you would
expect it to show results in what time period?

**KEARNEY:** We should expect it to show results very soon, I can't tell you
exactly the time frame for that, we have to wait to see if doctors do take up
that insensitive and go in. But what I understand is on the back of that the
department is going to be individually calling aged care facilities, making
sure that they are ready and ensuring residents are getting the vaccines. What
I have heard also is that the introduction of the antivirals has made a huge
difference in aged care facilities, in my electorate and ones I have visited
said it has just been game changing. We are fairly confident with all these
measures going in hopefully all the protection necessary for aged care
residents are there.

**JENNETT:** Lessons learned, Ged says from past peaks Anne. That is the
benefit of coming in after you guys. Are you critical in any way of the
response to aged care settings in particular, particularly in the last three
or four months?

**RUSTON:** You only have to look at the statistics that sadly tell the story.
More people have died in aged care from COVID in aged care facilities in eight
months this Government has been in Government than the whole first two and
half years of the COVID pandemic. You would have two suggest those statistics
would indicate some in his been terribly amiss over that period. In terms of
providing additional incentives, we are hearing from aged care facilities they
haven't even paid for COVID costs that were incurred last year, so whilst we
would welcome support for our aged care facilities because old Australians
need that support, I would question what's been happening over the last eight
and a half months, and it took eight and a half months before we made these
changes, I hope they are enough but the statistics would tell a different
story.

**JENNETT:** In your experience are incentive payments to GP and pharmacists
are something that those professionals respond to quickly? Could it have a
quick result once it does flow?

**RUSTON:** Obviously any incentive you would hope would have a positive
impact but what has been put in place so far doesn't seem to have worked, as I
said those tragic numbers around the number people have died in aged care tell
the very sad story of the last 8.5 months.

**JENNETT:** By the way, those statistics, are they with COVID or from COVID?

**RUSTON:** They are recorded as they have been recorded right the way through
the pandemic, so it’s a like-for-like analysis between the two, but we do need
to make sure we are protecting our most vulnerable Australians in aged care
because we know that for the rest of us the COVID pandemic is to a large
extent behind us but for vulnerable people it's not and we owe them a duty of
care which has been sadly missing for the last little while.

**JENNETT:** It’s true we probably haven't spoken about it in recent months as
we did a year ago.

**KEARNEY:** Just a reminder for everyone to get their next booster, ATAGI as
you know has advised that if you haven't had COVID in the last six months or
you haven't a your booster, it’s time to get the next one.

**JENNETT:** Points made, with our expert health panel on hand today we will
wrap that up.

Tags:

  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

