Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  4. [Primary care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)

[Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-
care)

# Ear and hearing health for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people

Healthy ears and healthy hearing help people connect with language and
culture, help kids learn at school, and increase job opportunities. Our
policies and programs aim to prevent, treat and monitor ear disease in
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Ear and hearing health for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-health-and-hearing-support)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-health-and-hearing-support)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Ear and hearing health for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-health-and-hearing-support)

Loading...

On this page

## Preventing ear disease

Otitis media is a type of ear disease that can cause hearing loss. Hearing
loss can **** affect a person’s experiences with family, community, culture,
school and work.

We fund initiatives and resources to help prevent ear disease and hearing
loss, and to identify children who need support services.

## Ear health support

### Equipment Program

The Equipment Program supplies, maintains and repairs ear and hearing health
assessment equipment, for free, in:

  * Australian Government-funded Aboriginal Medical Services
  * health services whose clients are mostly Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander.

Contact [Sonic Innovations](https://sonici.com.au/contact-us/) to find out
whether your service is eligible to receive equipment.

### Ear health assessment training

[EarTrain](https://www.tafensw.edu.au/eartrain) provides free national online
training to health professionals, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander health workers, general practitioners and nurses. The courses build
the skills needed to assess and manage ear and hearing health.

### Ear health coordinators

Ear health coordinators work with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
communities and health services to:

  * build skills and knowledge that help to prevent and treat ear disease and hearing loss
  * identify pathways to other services related to ear health for people who need further treatment, like surgery.

To find an ear health coordinator in your state or territory, contact:

  * National – [National Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation](https://www.naccho.org.au/)
  * NSW/ACT – [Aboriginal Health and Medical Research Council](https://www.ahmrc.org.au/) or [NSW Rural Doctors Network](https://www.nswrdn.com.au/)
  * NT – [Aboriginal Medical Services Alliance Northern Territory](http://www.amsant.org.au/)
  * Qld – [Queensland Aboriginal and Islander Health Council](https://www.qaihc.com.au/)
  * SA – [Aboriginal Health Council of South Australia](https://ahcsa.org.au/)
  * Tas – [Tasmanian Aboriginal Corporation](https://tacinc.com.au/)
  * Vic – [Victoria Aboriginal Community Controlled Organisation](https://www.vaccho.org.au/) or [Rural Workforce Agency Victoria Limited](https://www.rwav.com.au/)
  * WA – [Aboriginal Health Council of Western Australia](https://www.ahcwa.org.au/) or [Rural Health West](https://www.ruralhealthwest.com.au/).

### Hearing for Learning Initiative

The [Hearing for Learning
Initiative](https://www.menzies.edu.au/page/Research/Centres_initiatives_and_projects/Hearing_for_Learning_Initiative/)
trains and employs Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community members as
ear health project officers in the Northern Territory. They help primary care
services and health professionals diagnose and manage ear disease or refer
children for specialist treatment.

### Hearing Assessment Program – Early Ears

The Hearing Assessment Program – Early Ears aims to prevent hearing loss in
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children in the years before they start
school.

[Hearing Australia](https://www.hearing.com.au/Resources-for-health-
professionals/General-Practitioners/New-referral-information-for-health-
services-provi) delivers the program in consultation with communities and
health services. Audiologists provide ear and hearing health assessments and
recommendations for any follow-up care required.

## Outreach services

Many people who live in rural, remote and some urban areas depend on outreach
health services – where health professionals travel from other areas to
provide care.

We support these health professionals by covering some costs – like travel and
accommodation – so that people can access eye and ear care services regardless
of where they live.

We fund organisations in each state and territory to manage and deliver these
outreach programs:

  * NSW – [NSW Rural Doctors Network](http://www.nswrdn.com.au/site/index.cfm)
  * NT – [NT Department of Health](https://health.nt.gov.au/)
  * Qld – [CheckUp Australia](http://www.checkup.org.au/)
  * SA – [Rural Doctors Workforce Agency](https://www.ruraldoc.com.au/)
  * Tas – [Department of Health and Human Services](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/), and [Rural Health Tasmania](http://www.ruralhealthtas.com.au/) for the Eye and Ear Surgical Support Program
  * Vic – [Rural Workforce Agency Victoria](https://www.rwav.com.au/)
  * WA – [Rural Health West](http://www.ruralhealthwest.com.au/).

We support the following ear and hearing health outreach programs.

### Healthy Ears – Better Hearing, Better Listening Program

Healthy Ears provides funding:

  * for primary health care professionals to screen and treat Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children and young people for ear and hearing problems
  * to improve access to follow-up or ongoing care like speech pathology or specialist treatment.

Healthy Ears focuses on children and young people aged up to 21 years who live
in rural and remote areas of Australia.

### Ear Surgical Support Program

The Ear Surgical Support Program supports more timely and convenient ear
surgery for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people who live in rural and
remote areas.

It funds the travel and accommodation costs for:

  * health professionals who provide visiting surgical services, so that they can get as close as possible to rural and remote patients’ homes
  * for patients and carers who need to travel to access surgery.

### Learn more about outreach services

[ ![Cover image for outreach programs delivery
standards](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2021/06/outreach-
programs-service-delivery-standards.jpg?itok=gAfwtriV)
](/resources/publications/outreach-programs-service-delivery-standards)

###  [Outreach Programs Service Delivery Standards
](/resources/publications/outreach-programs-service-delivery-
standards?language=en)

These standards guide fundholders on their eligibility, responsibilities and
the delivery of efficient and effective services.

## Resources

The following free resources are available:

  * [Care for Kids’ Ears](/our-work/care-for-kids-ears "Care for Kids' Ears") helps parents, carers, teachers, teachers’ aides, early childhood workers and health professionals recognise and prevent ear disease in children. It offers various resources to support ear and hearing health.
  * [PLUM & HATS](https://plumandhats.nal.gov.au/) (Parent-evaluated Listening and Understanding Measure, and Hearing and Talking Scale) are questionnaires that help screen how babies and toddlers listen and communicate. They give primary care providers, early education staff, parents and carers confidence and knowledge to identify problems with listening and talking in very young children.

[Otitis media (middle ear infection) clinical care
guidelines](http://otitismediaguidelines.com/#/start-main) provides advice to
health professionals to help them manage ear conditions. The guidelines are
also available as an
[Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.otitismediaguidelines.guidelines)
or [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/otitis-media-
guidelines/id1498170123?mt=8) app.

Last updated:

2 May 2022

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Ear health and hearing](/topics/ear-health-and-hearing)
  * [Indigenous Australians' Health Programme ](/our-work/indigenous-australians-health-programme)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-
torres-strait-islander-health)

  * [Status and determinants of health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/status-and-determinants)
  * [How we support health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/how-we-support-health)
  * [Who we work with](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/who-we-work-with-to-support-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)
    * [Annual health checks](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks)
    * [Ear health and hearing support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-health-and-hearing-support)
    * [Eye health and vision support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)
    * [Chronic disease support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support)
    * [Medicare and medicines](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/medicare-and-medicines)
    * [Evaluations](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/evaluations)
  * [Lifestyle and family health support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support)
  * [Aged care support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/aged-care-support)
  * [Reporting](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)
  * [Research](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/research)
  * [News](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

