Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Home Care Packages Program](/our-work/home-care-packages-program)

[Home Care Packages Program](/our-work/home-care-packages-program)

# Delivering services under the Home Care Packages Program

Approved providers can offer certain types of services under the Home Care
Packages Program. These include services like personal and clinical care, help
with household chores and preparing meals, and mobility support. There are
also certain services you cannot provide.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Delivering services under the Home Care Packages Program&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/home-care-packages-program/delivering-services)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/home-care-packages-program/delivering-services)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Delivering services under the Home Care Packages Program&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/home-care-packages-program/delivering-services)

Loading...

On this page

## Services you can provide

You can use [Home Care Package funding](/node/7949#home-care-package-funding)
to provide:

  * personal care – such as help with showering and hygiene
  * communication support – such as help with using the phone or hearing aids
  * dietary support – such as help with nutrition and preparing meals
  * skin care – such as bandages and dressings
  * continence care – such as disposable pads, commode chairs and bedpans
  * mobility support – such as crutches, handrails, wheelchairs and bed rails
  * support services – such as cleaning, gardening and transport
  * social support – such as help to take part in social activities and access emergency services
  * care management – such as reviewing agreements and making sure services are suitable
  * clinical care – such as nursing, podiatry, physiotherapy and hearing services

You can subcontract out services to meet the needs of your care recipients if
you cannot provide them yourself. You are still accountable for these services
and must still carry out your [provider responsibilities](/our-work/home-care-
packages-program/responsibilities "Responsibilities of Home Care Package
providers").

## Services you cannot provide

You **cannot** use [Home Care Package funding](/node/7949#home-care-package-
funding) to pay for:

  * items that would usually be paid for with general income, such as household bills and other basic living expenses
  * food, unless it is part of enteral feeding needs
  * permanent accommodation costs, such as mortgage payments or rent
  * home care fees
  * home modifications or capital items that do not relate to care needs
  * travel or accommodation for holidays
  * entertainment such as club memberships or tickets to sporting events
  * gambling
  * services or items covered by Medicare or the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
  * fees or charges for other types of care that the Australian Government fully or partly funds

## Commonwealth Home Support Programme (CHSP) services

In some cases, people receiving Home Care Packages can also get short-term
subsidised CHSP services. Find out more by reading the CHSP interaction with
Home Care Packages in the [CHSP manual](/resources/publications/commonwealth-
home-support-programme-chsp-manual "Commonwealth Home Support Programme
\(CHSP\) Manual").

To see whether they’re eligible for extra CHSP services, the person must
[contact My Aged Care for an
assessment](https://www.myagedcare.gov.au/assessment/what-happens-call).

## What you need to do

### Include services in care plans

You must include all the services you provide to a person in their [care
plan](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/managing/care-management "Care
management and care plans for Home Care Packages").

The services in a Home Care Package should meet all of a person's care needs.
If they have used up their [package budget](/our-work/home-care-packages-
program/managing/individualised-budgets "Individualised budgets for Home Care
Packages"), they can buy extra services from you for an agreed price.

### Publish details about your services

You must publish your services on My Aged Care so they appear when people
[search for home care services](https://www.myagedcare.gov.au/find-a-
provider/help-at-home).

You do this by entering your services details in the [My Aged Care service
provider portal](/resources/apps-and-tools/my-aged-care-service-and-support-
portal "My Aged Care service and support portal"). Watch our video on [setting
up Home Care Package
services](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PrYdAVmgp0U&index=6&list=PLKFDUMupjXqhI6e0mceMP0e6HqW1eSm7Q)
to find out how.

### Review care plans

You should have regular and [ongoing care discussions](/our-work/home-care-
packages-program/managing/ongoing-care-discussions "Ongoing care discussions
for Home Care Packages") with people in your care.

If their care needs have changed, consider and discuss their options.
Depending on their care needs, this may include:

  * [residential respite care](https://www.myagedcare.gov.au/short-term-care/respite-care)
  * permanent [residential aged care](/our-work/residential-aged-care "Residential aged care")
  * short-term [CHSP services](/node/7637#home-care-package-clients)
  * a [support plan review](/resources/publications/my-aged-care-support-plan-review-and-new-assessment "My Aged Care – Support Plan Review and New Assessment "), if the person is on a lower level of home care

## Legislation

For full details, go to:

  * [Part 1 – Care and services](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2019C00613/Text#_Toc15561999) and [Part 2 — Excluded items](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2019C00613/Text#_Toc15562003) in the Quality of Care Principles 2014
  * [96-4 – Care provided on behalf of an approved provider](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2019C00294/Text#_Toc20489650) in the Aged Care Act 1997

Last updated:

17 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Home Care Packages Program](/our-work/home-care-packages-program)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Home Care Packages Program](/our-work/home-care-packages-program)

  * [About the program](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/about)
  * [Before providing services](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/before-providing-services)
  * [Responsibilities of providers](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/responsibilities)
  * [Delivering services](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/delivering-services)
  * [Funding](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/funding)
  * [Fees](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/fees)
  * [Pricing](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/pricing)
  * [Managing packages](/our-work/home-care-packages-program/managing)
  * [News](/initiatives-and-programs/home-care-packages-program/news)
  * [Resources](/initiatives-and-programs/home-care-packages-program/resources)
  * [Contacts](/initiatives-and-programs/home-care-packages-program/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

