Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  4. [Advice for COVID-19 vaccine providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
  5. [ATAGI clinical guidance for COVID-19 vaccine providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance)

[Clinical guidance for COVID-19 vaccine providers](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance)

# COVID-19 vaccine doses and administration

The following COVID-19 vaccines have been provisionally approved for use in
Australia. Find out their dosage, volume and schedules.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=COVID-19 vaccine doses and administration&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/doses-and-administration)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/doses-and-administration)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=COVID-19 vaccine doses and administration&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/doses-and-administration)

Loading...

On this page

## Pfizer original ≥12 years dilute-to-use formulation (purple cap)

### Brand name Comirnaty, generic name tozinameran or BNT162b2

**Category**

|

**Detail**  
  
---|---  
  
Sponsor

|

Pfizer Australia Pty Ltd  
  
Approved age for use

|

≥12 years  
  
Presentation

|

Multidose vial without preservative. Each vial contains 6 doses in 0.45 mL.
**Requires dilution** with 1.8 mL of sterile 0.9% NaCl without preservative
into each multidose vial  
  
Cap colour

|

Purple  
  
Volume/strength

|

0.3 mL (30 µg) per dose  
  
Schedule

|

2 doses, 3 to 8 weeks apart  
  
Administration route

|

Intramuscular injection into deltoid muscle  
  
Ingredients

|

Each 0.3 mL dose contains 30 µg mRNA encoding the SARS-CoV-2 spike
glycoprotein  
  
Excipients

|

  * ((4-hydroxybutyl)azanediyl)bis(hexane-6,1-diyl)bis(2-hexyldecanoate) (ALC-0315)
  * 2-[(polyethylene glycol)-2000]-N,N-ditetradecylacetamide (ALC-0159)
  * distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC)
  * cholesterol
  * potassium chloride
  * monobasic potassium phosphate
  * sodium chloride
  * dibasic sodium phosphate dihydrate
  * sucrose
  * water for injection

  
  
## Pfizer 5 to 11 years formulation (orange cap)

### Brand name Comirnaty, generic name tozinameran or BNT162b2

**Category**

|

**Detail**  
  
---|---  
  
Sponsor

|

Pfizer Australia Pty Ltd  
  
Approved age for use

|

5 to <12 years  
  
Presentation

|

Tris/sucrose presentation. Multidose vial containing 10 doses in 1.3 mL.
**Requires dilution** with 1.3 mL of sterile 0.9% NaCl without preservative
into each multidose vial  
  
Cap colour

|

Orange  
  
Volume/strength

|

0.2 mL (10 µg) per dose  
  
Schedule

|

2 doses, 8 weeks apart  
  
Administration route

|

Intramuscular injection into deltoid muscle  
  
Ingredients

|

Each 0.2 mL dose contains 10 µg mRNA encoding the SARS-CoV-2 spike
glycoprotein  
  
Excipients

|

  * ((4-hydroxybutyl)azanediyl)bis(hexane-6,1-diyl)bis(2-hexyldecanoate) (ALC-0315)
  * 2-[(polyethylene glycol)-2000]-N,N-ditetradecylacetamide (ALC-0159)
  * distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC)
  * cholesterol
  * trometamol
  * trometamol hydrochloride
  * sucrose
  * water for injection

  
  
## Pfizer 6 months to 4 years formulation (maroon cap)

### Brand name Comirnaty, generic name tozinameran or BNT162b2

Category | Detail  
---|---  
  
Sponsor

|

Pfizer Australia Pty Ltd  
  
Approved age for use

|

6 months to <5 years  
  
Presentation

|

Tris/sucrose presentation. Multidose vial containing 10 doses in 0.4 mL.
**Requires dilution** with 2.2 mL of sterile 0.9% NaCl without preservative
into each multidose vial  
  
Cap colour

|

Maroon  
  
Volume/strength

|

0.2 mL (3 µg) per dose  
  
Schedule

|

3 doses, each dose 8 weeks apart  
  
Administration route

|

For infants aged 6 to 12 months: Intramuscular injection into vastus lateralis
muscle of the anterolateral thigh

For children aged ≥12 months: Intramuscular injection into deltoid muscle (or
into the vastus lateralis muscle of the anterolateral thigh)  
  
Ingredients

|

Each 0.2 mL dose contains 3 µg mRNA encoding the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein  
  
Excipients

|

  * ((4-hydroxybutyl)azanediyl)bis(hexane-6,1-diyl)bis(2-hexyldecanoate) (ALC-0315)
  * 2-[(polyethylene glycol)-2000]-N,N-ditetradecylacetamide (ALC-0159)
  * distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC)
  * cholesterol
  * trometamol
  * trometamol hydrochloride
  * sucrose
  * water for injection

  
  
## Pfizer bivalent original/Omicron BA.1 ≥18 years formulation (grey cap)

### Brand name Comirnaty, generic name tozinameran or BNT162b2 (OMI) BA.1

Category

|

Detail  
  
---|---  
  
Sponsor

|

Pfizer Australia Pty Ltd  
  
Approved age for use

|

≥18 years  
  
Presentation

|

Multidose vial containing 6 doses in 2.25 mL. **Does not require dilution**  
  
Cap colour

|

Grey. Note that Pfizer bivalent original/Omicron BA.4/5 ≥ 12 years formulation
also has a grey cap. To minimise the risk of administration errors, providers
should preferably prepare and store doses of these vaccines separately. Doses
withdrawn in advance of administration should be clearly labelled.  
  
Volume/strength

|

0.3 mL (30 µg) per dose  
  
Schedule

|

1 dose (booster only)  
  
Administration route

|

Intramuscular injection into deltoid muscle  
  
Ingredients

|

Each 0.3 mL dose contains 15 µg of tozinameran and 15 µg of riltozinameran  
  
Excipients

|

  * ((4-hydroxybutyl)azanediyl)bis(hexane-6,1-diyl)bis (2-hexyldecanoate) (ALC-0315)
  * 2-[(polyethylene glycol)-2000]-N,N-ditetradecylacetamide (ALC-0159)
  * distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC)
  * cholesterol
  * trometamol
  * trometamol hydrochloride
  * sucrose
  * water for injection

  
  
## Pfizer bivalent original/Omicron BA.4/5 ≥12 years formulation (grey cap)

### Brand name Comirnaty, generic name tozinameran/famtozinameran

**Category**

|

**Detail**  
  
---|---  
  
Sponsor

|

Pfizer Australia Pty Ltd  
  
Approved age for use

|

≥12 years  
  
Presentation

|

Multidose vial containing 6 doses in 2.25 mL. **Does not require dilution**  
  
Cap colour

|

Grey. Note that Pfizer bivalent original/Omicron BA.1 ≥ 18 years formulation
also has a grey cap. To minimise the risk of administration errors, providers
should preferably prepare and store doses of these vaccines separately. Doses
withdrawn in advance of administration should be clearly labelled.  
  
Volume/strength

|

0.3 mL (30 µg) per dose  
  
Schedule

|

1 dose (booster only)  
  
Administration route

|

Intramuscular injection into deltoid muscle  
  
Ingredients

|

Each 0.3 mL dose contains 15 µg of tozinameran and 15 µg of famtozinameran  
  
Excipients

|

  * ((4-hydroxybutyl)azanediyl)bis(hexane-6,1-diyl)bis (2-hexyldecanoate) (ALC-0315)
  * 2-[(polyethylene glycol)-2000]-N,N-ditetradecylacetamide (ALC-0159)
  * distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC)
  * cholesterol
  * trometamol
  * trometamol hydrochloride
  * sucrose
  * water for injection

  
  
## Moderna 6 months to 5 years formulation (blue cap/purple stripe)

### Brand name Spikevax, generic name elasomeran or mRNA-1273

**Category**

|

**Detail**  
  
---|---  
  
Sponsor

|

Moderna Australia Pty Ltd  
  
Approved age for use

|

6 months to 5 years  
  
Presentation

|

2.5 mL multidose vial without preservative  
  
Cap colour

|

Blue cap/purple stripe. Note that Moderna bivalent original/Omicron BA.1 ≥18
years formulation (blue cap/green label) also has a blue cap. To minimise the
risk of administration errors, providers should preferably prepare and store
doses of these vaccines separately. Doses withdrawn in advance of
administration should be clearly labelled.  
  
Volume/strength

|

0.25 mL (25 μg) per dose  
  
Schedule

|

2 doses, 8 weeks apart  
  
Administration route

|

For infants aged <12 months: Intramuscular injection into vastus lateralis
muscle of the anterolateral thigh

For children aged ≥12 months: Intramuscular injection into deltoid muscle (or
into the vastus lateralis muscle of the anterolateral thigh)  
  
Ingredients

|

Each 0.25 mL dose contains 25 μg mRNA encoding the SARS-CoV-2 spike
glycoprotein  
  
Excipients

|

  * heptadecan-9-yl 8-[2-hydroxyethyl-(6-oxo-6-undecoxyhexyl)amino]octanoate
  * cholesterol
  * distearoylphosphatidylcholine
  * 1,2-dimyristoyl-rac-glycero-3-methoxypolyethylene glycol-2000 (PEG2000-DMG)
  * trometamol
  * trometamol hydrochloride
  * acetic acid
  * sodium acetate trihydrate
  * sucrose
  * water for injection

  
  
## Moderna bivalent original/Omicron BA.1 ≥18 years (blue cap/green label)

### **B** rand name Spikevax generic name elasomeran/imelasomeran or
mRNA-1273.214

**Category**

|

**Detail**  
  
---|---  
  
Sponsor

|

Moderna Australia Pty Ltd  
  
Approved age for use

|

≥18 years  
  
Presentation

|

2.5 mL multidose vial without preservative  
  
Cap colour

|

Blue cap/green label. Note that the Moderna 6 months to 5 years formulation
(blue cap/purple stripe) also has a blue cap. To minimise the risk of
administration errors, providers should preferably prepare and store doses of
these vaccines separately. Doses withdrawn in advance of administration should
be clearly labelled.  
  
Volume/strength

|

0.5 mL (50 μg) per dose  
  
Schedule

|

1 dose (booster only)  
  
Administration route

|

Intramuscular injection into deltoid muscle  
  
Ingredients

|

Each 0.5 mL dose contains 25 μg elasomeran (ancestral SARS-CoV-2) and 25 μg
imlasomeran (Omicron BA.1 subvariant)  
  
Excipients

|

  * heptadecan-9-yl 8-[2-hydroxyethyl-(6-oxo-6-undecoxyhexyl)amino]octanoate
  * cholesterol
  * distearoylphosphatidylcholine
  * 1,2-dimyristoyl-rac-glycero-3-methoxypolyethylene glycol-2000 (PEG2000-DMG)
  * trometamol
  * trometamol hydrochloride
  * acetic acid
  * sodium acetate trihydrate
  * sucrose
  * water for injection

  
  
## Moderna bivalent original/Omicron BA.4/5 ≥12 years (pre-filled syringe)

### Brand name Spikevax, generic name elasomeran/davesomeran or mRNA-1273.222

**Category**

|

**Detail**  
  
---|---  
  
Sponsor

|

Moderna Australia Pty Ltd  
  
Approved age for use

|

≥12 years  
  
Presentation

|

0.5 mL pre-filled syringe  
  
Volume/strength

|

0.5 mL (50 μg) per dose  
  
Schedule

|

1 dose (booster only)  
  
Administration route

|

Intramuscular injection into deltoid muscle  
  
Ingredients

|

Each 0.5 mL dose contains 25 μg elasomeran (ancestral SARS-CoV-2) and 25 μg
davesomeran (Omicron BA.4/5 subvariants)  
  
Excipients

|

  * heptadecan-9-yl 8-[2-hydroxyethyl-(6-oxo-6-undecoxyhexyl)amino]octanoate
  * cholesterol
  * distearoylphosphatidylcholine
  * 1,2-dimyristoyl-rac-glycero-3-methoxypolyethylene glycol-2000 (PEG2000-DMG)
  * trometamol
  * trometamol hydrochloride
  * acetic acid
  * sodium acetate trihydrate
  * sucrose
  * water for injection

  
  
## Novavax – brand name Nuvaxovid, generic name NVX-CoV2373

**Category**

|

**Detail**  
  
---|---  
  
Sponsor

|

Biocelect Pty Ltd on behalf of Novavax Ltd  
  
Approved age for use

|

≥12 years  
  
Presentation

|

Multidose vial without preservative, each vial containing 10 doses in 5 mL  
  
Volume/strength

|

5 µg antigen, 50 µg Matrix-M  
  
Schedule

|

2 doses, 3 to 8 weeks apart  
  
Administration route

|

Intramuscular injection into deltoid muscle  
  
Ingredients

|

Each 0.5 mL dose contains 5 µg of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, adjuvanted with
Matrix-M.

Adjuvant Matrix-M contains Fraction-A (42.5 µg) and Fraction-C (7.5 µg) of
_Quillaja saponaria_ Molina extract  
  
Excipients

|

  * dibasic sodium phosphate heptahydrate
  * monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate
  * sodium chloride
  * polysorbate 80
  * sodium hydroxide (for adjustment of pH)
  * hydrochloric acid (for adjustment of pH)
  * water for injection
  * adjuvant (Matrix M) 
    * _Quillaja saponaria_ saponins fraction A
    * _Quillaja saponaria_ saponins fraction C
    * cholesterol
    * phosphatidyl choline
    * monobasic potassium phosphate
    * potassium chloride

  
  
Last updated:

21 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
    * [Becoming a provider](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/becoming-a-provider)
    * [Clinical guidance for COVID-19 vaccine providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance)
      * [Latest updates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/latest-updates)
      * [Clinical recommendations](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/clinical-recommendations)
      * [Doses and administration](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/doses-and-administration)
      * [Contraindications and precautions](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/contraindications-and-precautions)
      * [Adverse events](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/adverse-events)
      * [Clinical features](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/clinical-features)
      * [Product information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/product-information)
      * [Transport, storage and handling](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/transporting-storing-and-handling)
      * [AstraZeneca and TTS](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/tts)
      * [COVID-19 vaccines and cardiac inflammation](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/myocarditis-pericarditis)
      * [Public health management](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance/public-health-management)
    * [Allocations, storage and handling](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/allocations-storage-handling)
    * [Managing your bookings](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/managing-bookings)
    * [Charging for consultations](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/charging-medicare)
    * [Vaccinating your patients](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/vaccinating-patients)
    * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/resources)
    * [Training program](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/covid-19-vaccination-training-program)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

