Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [Accessing Medicare for health practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  5. [Medicare access for doctors and specialists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists)

[Doctors and specialists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-
industry/doctors-and-specialists)

# Fellowship requirements under section 19AA

Doctors who are permanent residents or citizens of Australia must hold
vocational recognition or be actively working towards it before they can
access Medicare benefits. Read about these requirements under section 19AA of
the Health Insurance Act 1973.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Fellowship requirements under section 19AA&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19aa)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19aa)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Fellowship requirements under section 19AA&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19aa)

Loading...

On this page

## **Accessing Medicare benefits**

The conditions that allow doctors to access Medicare benefits under section
19AA of the [Health Insurance Act
1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00285) depend on:

  * their residency status
  * whether they are vocationally recognised (that is, hold fellowship qualifications from a recognised Australian specialist college).

Section 19AA applies to every doctor who registered to practise medicine in
Australia on or after 1 November 1996. No exemption is available for any
reason. ****

### **Permanent residents or citizens**

If you are a permanent resident or citizen of Australia, you must have a
fellowship with:

  * the [Royal Australian College of General Practitioners](https://www.racgp.org.au/)
  * the [Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine](https://www.acrrm.org.au/)
  * an [Australian specialist college](https://www.amc.org.au/accreditation-and-recognition/assessment-accreditation-specialist-medical-programs-assessment-accreditation-specialist-medical-programs/specialist-medical-colleges/).

If you donâ€™t, you must be on an approved training program and working towards
attaining fellowship.

If you are an overseas trained doctor or foreign graduate of an accredited
medical school, you will be subject to a [10-year moratorium](/topics/doctors-
and-specialists/what-we-do/19ab/moratorium "10-year moratorium and scaling").
This means that for 10 years, you can access Medicare benefits only if you
work in certain locations and meet eligibility requirements under [section
19AB of the Health Insurance Act 1973](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-
industry/doctors-and-specialists/19ab "Section 19AB restricted doctors and
access to Medicare").

### **Temporary residents**

If you are an overseas trained doctor or foreign graduate of an accredited
medical school who is a temporary resident of Australia, you must satisfy
section 19AB. This applies whether you are vocationally recognised or not.

#### Gaining permanent residency before vocational recognition

Your Medicare access will cease if you become a permanent resident before you
gain vocational recognition and are not taking part in an approved program.

Let [Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/health-professionals-contact-information) know of any change in
your residency as soon as it occurs to avoid accruing a debt.

To regain Medicare access, you will need to join an approved program at an
eligible location.

## **Workforce and training programs for those without fellowship**

From January 2022, if you are a general practitioner and wish to sit your
fellowship examination, you must be participating on a college-led training
program. These programs are:

  * [Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine Independent Pathway](https://www.acrrm.org.au/training-towards-fellowship/overview-of-fellowship-training/training-pathways/acrrm-independent-pathway)
  * [Australian General Practice Training Program](/our-work/australian-general-practice-training-agpt-program "Australian General Practice Training \(AGPT\) Program")
  * [Remote Vocational Training Scheme](https://rvts.org.au/)
  * [Royal Australian College of General Practitioners Practice Experience Program](https://www.racgp.org.au/education/imgs/fellowship-pathways/fellowship-programs-for-imgs/practice-experience-program).

If you are training in a specialty other than general practice, you should
speak to your college about approved fellowship pathways.

If you do not have fellowship, you can access Medicare benefits only if you
are on an approved training or workforce program at an eligible location.
These programs are available for a defined period, and you will not be able to
sit your fellowship exams while you remain on these programs:

  * [Approved Medical Deputising Services Program](/our-work/amds "Approved Medical Deputising Services \(AMDS\) program")
  * [More Doctors for Rural Australia Program](/our-work/more-doctors-for-rural-australia-program "More Doctors for Rural Australia Program").

The following programs are closed to new applicants. Current participants on
these programs can access Medicare benefits for the remainder of their
placement, but will be unable to sit their fellowship exams while they remain
on these programs:

  * [Rural Locum Relief Program](http://www.rhwa.org.au/rural-locum-relief-program)
  * [Special Approved Placements Program](/our-work/sapp "Special Approved Placements Program \(SAPP\)")
  * [Temporary Residents Other Medical Practitioners Program](/our-work/TROMPs "Temporary Resident Other Medical Practitioners program").

## **Why gaining fellowship is important**

Having a fellowship ensures:

  * you qualify for full Medicare benefits access
  * Australians have access to highly qualified medical practitioners.

## **Processing timeframes**

December to March is our peak processing period for Medicare provider number
applications. During this time, allow a minimum of 6 weeks for your
application to be processed and a Medicare provider number issued.

## **Contact**

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Section 19AA contact ](/contacts/section-19aa-contact?language=en)

Contact us for information about section 19AA of the Health Insurance Act
1973, its requirements, and programs for doctors who are non-vocationally
recognised.

[19aa@health.gov.au](mailto:19aa@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

24 November 2021

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
    * [Allied health professionals](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/allied-health-professionals)
    * [Dentists and dental practitioners](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/dentist-and-dental-practitioners)
    * [Doctors and specialists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists)
      * [Section 19AA fellowship requirements](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19aa)
      * [Section 19AB restricted doctors](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-specialists/19ab)
    * [Nurse practitioners](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/nurse-practitioners)
    * [Optometrists](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/optometrists)
    * [Participating midwives](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/participating-midwives)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

