Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Minister for Health and Aged Care – transcript – RN Breakfast – 12 May 2023

Read the transcript of Minister Butler's interview with Patricia Karvelas
about Medicare, bulk billing and Better Access.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Minister for Health and Aged Care – transcript – RN Breakfast – 12 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-transcript-rn-breakfast-12-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-transcript-rn-breakfast-12-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Minister for Health and Aged Care – transcript – RN Breakfast – 12 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/minister-for-health-and-aged-care-transcript-rn-breakfast-12-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

12 May 2023

Date published:

12 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**PATRICIA KARVELAS, HOST:** Mark Butler is the Health Minister and joins me
in the studio just where I want him. Welcome to the program.

**MINISTER FOR HEALTH AND AGED CARE, MARK BUTLER:** Hi Patricia, thanks.

**KARVELAS:** Minister, plenty of GPs are saying they still can't afford to
bulk bill, under the new rate, so how many people realistically will be able
to see a GP for free?

**BUTLER:** You can always find some who will make a business decision not to
bulk bill, and I hope that their patients shop around and find a practice that
will bulk bill because this, as the College of GPs has said is going to be a
'game changer'. The Council that represents the big corporate owners of
general practice, which your listeners will increasingly be familiar with,
said pretty much the same as well. This is a huge increase to the fee that a
GP will get for bulk billing children, pensioners, self-funded retirees and
low-income families. This is less than half the population, but it accounts
for more than 60% of the throughput of a general practice. It is a huge
financial injection and it's a real game changer for all those millions of
mums and dads who want confidence that when their kid gets sick, they'll be
able to access a bulk billed doctor. Now, maybe not every doctor will take
this up. If they don't, they don't get the money obviously, and hopefully a
practice down the road will take it up. And if a patient, if a mum, dad and a
pensioner want a bulk-billed session they know that there is a general
practice that has been properly rewarded for that service.

**KARVELAS:** There's been a more than 6-year freeze on Medicare rebates,
you've increased bulk billing rates for people on concession cards and
children under 16. But for everyone else the rate is still stuck in that
freeze, will that ever change?

**BUTLER:** The freeze was lifted a couple of years ago. It was a freeze that
was initiated by Peter Dutton when he was Health Minister some time ago, but
this year, in addition to the huge injection in bulk billing incentives, we’re
putting in place the biggest overall increase to the Medicare rebate since
Paul Keating was Prime Minister more than 30 years ago.

The increase next year in Medicare rebates, aside from the bulk billing
changes, the increase next year will be the equivalent of the increase over 7
long years of the former government. This is a big injection, as I say, the
biggest since the early 1990s.

**KARVELAS:** When will you unfreeze the Medicare rebates for the rest of the
country? I understand you've made it quite targeted, people on concession
cards, as you say, and for families who have children under 16, but there are
many others, I mean, you describe them as the working, poor people who, you
know, aren’t on very high incomes who can't get bulk billing, and they still
can't get bulk billing under this plan?

**BUTLER:** Rebates aren’t frozen. Every rebate on the MBS is going to
increase next year. The biggest increase in Medicare rebates across the board,
every single service, every single type for every single Australian will
increase by more than it ever has since Paul Keating was Prime Minister 30
years ago. There is no freeze on the rebates, they all go up by more than they
have for 30 years. In addition, of which obviously there's the big injection
into bulk billing. In addition to which, again, there's more than $2 billion
in reform measures there. So, you know much more money for general practices
to employ nurses, to employ allied health workers, the sort of
multidisciplinary teams that patients need nowadays. A big injection – almost
a billion dollars into digital health. This is a sector of the economy that is
further behind than any other I can think of in using the opportunities of the
digital economy. We've got to do better than that. So, in addition to the bulk
billing, a very big investment in general practice, in particular.

From the time I was in Opposition I have been very clear with people, my
priority in strengthening Medicare is to rebuild general practice. I hope tens
of thousands of general practitioners out there know they've got a government
in Canberra now that recognises how critical their work is, how valuable their
work is as the backbone of our broader healthcare system.

**KARVELAS:** Do you accept, though, that in cities, in fact, the Melbourne
Age ran a story about how in the city of Melbourne you won't see a big
increase in doctors taking up this bulk billing, that it does actually
advantage regional areas, but in the cities, there might continue to be issues

**BUTLER:** The fee a city doctor will get for a bulk billed visit, so, a
standard bread-and-butter bulk billed visit of 10 or 15 minutes duration, the
fee in the city will increase by more than a third. Yes, it will increase by
more in regional areas, it will increase by about a half, where bulk billing
is under even more pressure than it is in the cities. But city doctors will
see an increase of more than a third, in addition to the biggest increase
overall in the rebate in 30 years, that is a huge financial injection into
general practice. Now, I don't pretend that every general practitioner will
take it up, but when you talk to the representatives of general practice as a
whole, or the council's that represent the big corporate owners, they're all
saying: this is a 'game changer' and those are their words: it is a game
changer in bulk billing.

As you said in your intro, we've seen a decline in bulk billing for years now,
and really worryingly that is starting to creep into a decline in bulk billing
for pensioners and for children, which is really the beating heart of the
Medicare system we established 40 years ago. This will change things. I have
no doubt about that.

**KARVELAS:** Do you have any modelling on what impact it will have on
hospitals as well, there has obviously been pressure on hospitals as a result
of not being able to access doctors who are bulk billing. Has the department
looked at all of that?

**BUTLER:** We've got long experience that shows that when bulk billing GP
clinics change their practice, the hospital in the area tends to see more
presentations at emergency departments. That's why I think what's really been
interesting is the last few months, National Cabinet meetings, you've seen
Premiers and Chief Ministers start to talk about general practice. Usually
they want to talk to us about hospital funding. They recognise now that the
real challenges in general practice are showing up at their emergency
departments. That's why you've seen some really positive responses from
Premiers to our announcements on Tuesday night, and that's in addition to the
announcements we made on Tuesday night about our Urgent Care Centres which are
rolling out over the course of this year.

We've funded 8 additional centres working very closely with state governments
because they know that those bulk billed services for non-life-threatening
emergencies where you need urgent care, like at the time your kid falls off a
skateboard and busts their arm. At the moment they’re rolling into the
hospitals as well, and really placing additional pressure on an already very
strained system.

**KARVELAS:** Just on another issue in your portfolio. On January 1 this year
the number of subsidised psychology sessions got cut in half from 20 to 10.
We've talked about it previously. Last night Peter Dutton announced that he
wants to increase it back to 20, now, obviously, he can't do that, he's in
opposition. But it does put some pressure on you, given he's now got a
distinctive different policy on this that says 20 sessions is the right
number. Will you revisit this decision?

**BUTLER:** He could have done it, because it was their Budget last year in
March, before the election, that saw the sessions end in December last year.
So, he could have advocated within government for the 10 sessions to continue
when he was a member of the former government, but apparently either he
didn't, or if he did, he wasn't successful.

This is a lazy policy. This is a policy that will make waitlists longer for
psychological therapy. That was the finding of the independent evaluation that
I published in December. It made waitlists worse, and it cut tens and tens of
thousands of people out of getting any psychological support whatsoever. It
also showed – this evaluation – that the additional 10 sessions, which had
only been in place for a couple of years, they were a COVID measure to respond
to lockdowns. It showed that those additional 10 sessions were not going to
the people who needed it most. They were not going to people with more complex
needs.

We're dealing with it, we’re working with the sector to deal with those two
issues. How do you make this system, which is a system I strongly support, but
how do you make it more equitable. It's clearly not getting to lower income
communities in the outer suburbs, certainly not into the regions, so how do
you make it more equitable, and how do you find a model that provides better
support for people with more complex needs? That's the work we're doing. We've
set aside money in the Budget to finalise that work over the course of the
rest of this year and we also had money in the budget to expand the psychology
workforce, which is a real, real driver of the waitlist problem we have now,
we just don't have enough psychologists. We've got substantial money in the
Budget to train hundreds and hundreds more psychologists as well but this is a
lazy policy. It's a serious problem we have in this area and needs a serious
response, not a lazy headline.

**KARVELAS:** You also delayed a decision on how to serve people with these
complex mental health conditions until later this year. How can you rip out
support, right, and you've given your reasons for why you did it, but then
hold up the replacement, because that's the key part, you can't take the one
away without giving...

**BUTLER:** I didn't rip out support, that was a decision made by the former
government...

**KARVELAS:** Ok. Either way you continued...

**BUTLER:** You need to respond to that, the second point I made was those 10
sessions were not going to people with more complex needs and that's what the
evaluation found. So, it’s cutting a whole lot of people out of the system
altogether, and not serving the people with complex needs the evaluation said
were a missing part of the system. Now, we have Head to Health clinics that
we're rolling out, we've funded, they're being opened, really, as we speak.
They're targeted at people with more complex needs, but I know we want to
build this system into something that is able to identify, triage people who
need more than 10 sessions and find a way to deliver those additional services
to them. But this is not simple. This is not a system that is designed for
that, it's not a system designed to identify and triage people with different
levels of need. Everyone in the sector recognises that, and they recognise
also that the hard work needs to happen. We've got money set aside in the
Budget, we are committed to doing it over the course of the rest of this year.

**KARVELAS:** There is a sense of urgency around all of this, though, isn't
there, I mean there are a lot of issues that have emerged in the community,
not just because of COVID, but certainly exacerbated by COVID. Do you accept
that there is strong community need on mental health, particularly some of
these more complex issues?

**BUTLER:** Absolutely. I absolutely accept that, and I think over the last 10
years, particularly in COVID, the cohort, the group, in the number in the
community who do have that more complex need, not acute, not the sort of need
that has traditionally been serviced by acute services in hospitals and the
like. But what – and I don’t love this term – but what people have
increasingly described as the missing middle is a real challenge. But one of
the one of the bottlenecks we have in developing these systems is not
particularly money its workforce, like so much in the healthcare sector, we
just don't have enough workers, which is why training more psychologists –
that was a real focus of this Budget, now that won't happen overnight, it
takes a while to train them. But while we are building these new systems we
also have to pay attention of the workforce shortages that really developed
very seriously over the last several years and, frankly, Peter Dutton as a
member of the government didn't do anything about.

**KARVELAS:** I want to move to another issue that didn't get as much
attention but I think is worth asking you as the Health Minister. There's not
much in the Budget either for contraception or abortion access, which was
quietly abandoned as a Budget priority. Abortion is legal and decriminalised
across the country, but many women struggled to access it. Why isn't that
something that the government has focused on?

**BUTLER:** We have a Senate Inquiry underway right now into reproductive
health services including termination, and this is getting a lot of attention,
lots of great submissions, hearing a lot of really good evidence. As you know,
Patricia, sometimes in this building those inquiries, whether they are in the
House of Reps or in the Senate, do really good policy development work. I’ve
very much supported the establishment of that committee. I'm looking forward
to its recommendations. But it's still underway and so we'll have a look at
those recommendations when the inquiry is delivered. We are deeply committed
as a matter of principle to equitable access to reproductive health and
termination services. I think this inquiry is really going to flesh out what
we can do as a Commonwealth, either ourselves or in partnership with state
government, to actually deliver a lot of these services, what we can do best,
and I'm looking forward to that inquiry.

**KARVELAS:** In 2019, the Labor Opposition then took to the election publicly
funded abortions in public hospitals. That didn't go to the last election, so
it wasn't one of your promises. But do you think the principle there is
something that a Labor Government should deliver?

**BUTLER:** Well, as I said, our position is there's got to be equitable
access. You know, that’s the very core...

**KARVELAS:** That’s the issue isn’t it, it’s prohibitive right now?

**BUTLER:** ...a very core principle, and in so many parts of the country the
only services available are public services. I think the way in which we put
that principle into practice is going to be fleshed out through this inquiry.
As I said, I'm looking forward to its recommendations, and I have very little
doubt that it is going to require some conversations with state governments
because the public hospital system and so many other public health services
are delivered by state governments, even if to a very significant extent they
are funded by us.

**KARVELAS:** Just before I let you go, on a broader political question, the
Opposition Leader delivered his Budget in Reply last night. I'm about to speak
to the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party Sussan Ley, and really at the centre
of his argument is that middle Australia has been abandoned by the Labor
Government and you've focused, obviously, on some vulnerable people but middle
Australia is doing it tough. Do you do you accept the charge that you've
abandoned a middle Australia by focusing on these vulnerable groups?

**BUTLER:** A Labor Government is always going to focus on vulnerable
Australians and we make no apology for that. We've done that since our party's
establishment. But the idea that this Budget and our Budget in October was not
focused on working families, on middle Australia if you want to use that term,
is complete rubbish. The substantial injection into general practice impacts
everyone, supports everyone -

**KARVELAS:** But it is focused on concession card holders?

**BUTLER:** No, as I've said, there's billions of dollars in additional
funding to Medicare, to rebuild and strengthen Medicare. But the idea that
millions of mums and dads who want bulk billed services for their children are
not middle Australia is ridiculous. Cheaper childcare, cheaper medicines, all
of these things are focused on the needs of working families who are doing it
so tough out there in the economic environment. I think what was missing from
last night in Peter Dutton's reply was a sense that this is a party that has
listened and learnt from their devastating election loss last year. He was a
senior, central member of a government that was comprehensively rejected. But
there was nothing from last night to show that they've changed, the same old
policies they tried to run at the last election.

**KARVELAS:** Thanks so much for your time.

**BUTLER:** Thanks Patricia.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Better Access initiative](/our-work/better-access-initiative)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

