Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [Medicare compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

[Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

# About Medicare compliance

Our compliance program helps to ensure all Medicare claims are correct and
legitimate. This helps keep our healthcare system sustainable and ensures we
remain accountable to Australian taxpayers for payments we make under
Medicare.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About Medicare compliance&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/about)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/about)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About Medicare compliance&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/about)

Loading...

On this page

## **What Medicare compliance is**

Health practitioners and organisations must meet legislative requirements when
they receive incentive payments, bill or claim for subsidised services or
dispense or prescribe subsidised medicines under the:

  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) (MBS)
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS)
  * [Child Dental Benefits Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/child-dental-benefits-schedule) (CDBS)
  * [Practitioner Incentives Program](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program) (PIP).

Medicare compliance is about ensuring health practitioners correctly follow
these requirements, in line with [relevant laws](/node/39418#legislation-and-
regulation).

Read about [when Medicare compliance
applies](/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies "When Medicare compliance
applies").

## **Why Medicare compliance is important**

Compliance with legislative Medicare requirements helps to:

  * maintain the high quality and integrity of Australia’s healthcare system
  * ensure Medicare remains sustainable by paying only legitimate claims.

It benefits patients by ensuring:

  * health care is clinically relevant and appropriate
  * health records for future treatments remain appropriate
  * the correct number of health services that have limited uses each year.

Compliance also benefits health practitioners and practices by preventing the
potentially major [costs and impacts of non-compliance](/node/42692#costs-and-
impacts-of-noncompliance).

## **Costs and impacts of non-compliance**

For health practitioners and practices, non-compliance can result in:

  * fines and debts you’ll need to repay 
  * reputation damage
  * higher insurance premiums that might result from compliance issues
  * potential court action in the case of fraud
  * administrative burden from having to resubmit claims, submit a [voluntary acknowledgement ](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments "Voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect payments")for incorrect claims, or substantiate claims following a [notice to produce documents](/node/42695#audits).

Read more about [Medicare non-compliance debts and
penalties](/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties "Non-compliance
debts and penalties").

## **Who is involved in Medicare compliance**

We are responsible for activities to help health practitioners meet their
legal obligations and detect fraud including:

  * providing guidance on [how to meet their obligations](/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply "How to comply with Medicare obligations")
  * developing [educational resources](https://www.dplearning.com.au/)
  * monitoring claiming patterns
  * conducting compliance audits and reviews
  * investigating [tip-offs](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/medicare-compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud)
  * monitoring MBS and CDBS billing and PBS prescribing practices, as part of the [Practitioner Review Program](/resources/collections/prp-for-practitioners "PRP for practitioners")
  * investigating fraud.

Where inappropriate practice by a practitioner or a corporate is suspected, we
refer cases to the [Professional Services Review](https://www.psr.gov.au/)
scheme.

Read more about [our compliance activities](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-
activities "Our Medicare compliance activities").

Stakeholders we work with to promote compliance include:

  * the [Department of Veterans’ Affairs](https://www.dva.gov.au/) – manages healthcare payments for veterans
  * [Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/) – manages payments made under Medicare and its programs, and does compliance audits and reviews for the [MBS](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home), [PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/), [CDBS](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/child-dental-benefits-schedule) or [PIP](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program).
  * peak professional bodies – provide support and information to their members
  * indemnity insurers – support health practitioners undergoing audits.

## **How to report suspected Medicare non-compliance**

If you are concerned about the billing or claiming, or suspect fraud of a
healthcare practitioner, their practice or their employee, notify us.

Find out more about [reporting incorrect billing, claiming or suspected
fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-
suspected-fraud "Reporting incorrect billing, claiming, or suspected fraud").

Last updated:

20 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
    * [About](/topics/medicare/compliance/about)
    * [When it applies](/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)
    * [How to comply](/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)
    * [Our compliance activities](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)
    * [Voluntary acknowledgement](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
    * [Debts and penalties](/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)
    * [Reporting incorrect billing or claiming, or suspected fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

