Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Resources](/resources)
  3. [Publications](/resources/publications)

[Publications](/resources/publications)

# Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for a new or
expanded service (Section 41)

Use this form to apply for a Radiation Oncology Health Program Grant for a new
health service, additional service locations, additional equipment, relocation
of a facility and replacement of equipment.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for a new or expanded service \(Section 41\)&url=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-scheme-application-for-a-new-or-expanded-service-section-41)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-scheme-application-for-a-new-or-expanded-service-section-41)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for a new or expanded service \(Section 41\)&body=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-scheme-application-for-a-new-or-expanded-service-section-41)

Loading...

![Cover image for Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme –
Application for a new or expanded service \(Section
41\)](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-12/radiation-
oncology-health-program-grants-scheme-application-for-a-new-or-expanded-
service-section-41_0.png?itok=KoGIsjG1)

Scroll down to access downloads and media.

## Downloads

### Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for a new or
expanded service (Section 41)

[ Download Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for a
new or expanded service (Section 41) as PDF \- 347.39 KB \- 7 pages
](/sites/default/files/2022-12/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-
scheme-application-for-a-new-or-expanded-service-section-41_0.pdf)

[ Download Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for a
new or expanded service (Section 41) as Word \- 131.47 KB \- 7 pages
](/sites/default/files/2022-12/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-
scheme-application-for-a-new-or-expanded-service-section-41_0.docx)

We aim to provide documents in an accessible format. If you're having problems
using a document with your accessibility tools, [please contact us for
help](/request-accessible-
format?destination=/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-health-program-
grants-scheme-application-for-a-new-or-expanded-service-section-41).

Publication date:

January 2020

Last updated:

20 December 2022

Publication type:

Form

Audience:

Health sector

Language:

English

Description:

Before completing this form, read the scheme's [administrative
guidelines](/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-
scheme-administrative-guidelines "Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants
Scheme – Administrative guidelines").

Before you can apply, your organisation must [be
approved](/resources/publications/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-
scheme-application-for-approval-of-an-organisation-section-40 "Radiation
Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme – Application for approval of an
organisation \(Section 40\)") under Section 40 of the [Health Insurance Act
1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2022C00174).

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Radiation Oncology Health Program Grants Scheme](/our-work/radiation-oncology-health-program-grants-scheme)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

