Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

[Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

# What we're doing for nurses and midwives

We develop policies and run programs to support the nursing and midwifery
workforce. Our Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer leads our work in this
field.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we're doing for nurses and midwives&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/nurses-and-midwives/what-we-do)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/nurses-and-midwives/what-we-do)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we're doing for nurses and midwives&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/nurses-and-midwives/what-we-do)

Loading...

On this page

## **Policy and strategy**

We work with the nursing and midwifery professions to improve systems and
processes. The following reviews and guidelines inform our policies on nursing
and midwifery to improve the health of all Australians.

### National Nursing Workforce Strategy

The National Nursing Workforce Strategy will set out a vision for the future
of nursing in Australia. It will set out priorities for supporting a capable,
resilient nursing profession delivering person-centred, evidence-based,
compassionate care to Australian communities across all sectors. The strategy
is expected to look at:

  * workforce sustainability,
  * diversity of the profession,
  * the challenges of regional, rural and remote nursing, and
  * plans to address the pathway from novice to expert, clearly setting out the pathway to nurse practitioner.

### **Nurse Practitioner Workforce Plan**

The Nurse Practitioner Workforce Plan outlines actions to address nurse
practitioner workforce issues and improve the delivery of nursing care.

To develop the plan, we considered:

  * stakeholder input from two rounds of public consultation
  * existing literature and reports on the nurse practitioner workforce.

Read more about the [Nurse Practitioner Workforce Plan](/our-work/nurse-
practitioner-workforce-plan "Nurse Practitioner Workforce Plan").

### **Educating the Nurse of the Future**

As part of the Australian Government’s [Stronger Rural Health
Strategy](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/stronger-
rural-health-strategy-factsheets), we commissioned an independent review of
the education of nurses. The review investigated whether this preparation
meets the service needs of Australia’s future health system. The 2019 report
[Educating the nurse of the future](/resources/collections/educating-the-
nurse-of-the-future-reports-and-literature-reviews "Educating the Nurse of the
Future reports and literature reviews") presents the outcomes of that review.

The Australian Government has tabled a
[response](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/government-
response-to-the-educating-the-nurse-of-the-future-report) to this review in
Parliament, where each of the 26 recommendations made in the report were
considered and responses provided on each recommendation.

### **Advanced nursing practice guidelines**

The Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officers of Australia produced the report
[Advanced Nursing Practice – Guidelines for the Australian
Context](/resources/publications/advanced-nursing-practice-guidelines-for-the-
australian-context "Advanced nursing practice – guidelines for the Australian
context") in 2020. These guidelines aim to:

  * reduce confusion about the scope of advanced nursing practice roles
  * provide greater clarity and understanding for nurses, employers, consumers and policy makers as to what the term advanced nursing practice describes in the Australian context
  * assist in providing national consistency.

### **Pregnancy care guidelines**

We developed the [Clinical Practice Guidelines – Pregnancy
Care](/resources/collections/pregnancy-care-guidelines-and-related-documents
"Pregnancy Care Guidelines and related documents") to support health care
professionals to provide high-quality, evidence-based care to pregnant women.

The guidelines cover a wide range of topics including routine physical
examinations, screening tests and social and lifestyle advice for pregnant
women without complications. We also developed [summary
sheets](/node/4806#health-professional-summary-sheets) for health
professionals to use with patients.

### **Woman-centred maternity care**

After extensive consultation, we developed [Woman-centred care: Strategic
directions for Australian maternity services](/resources/publications/woman-
centred-care-strategic-directions-for-australian-maternity-services "Woman-
centred care: Strategic directions for Australian maternity services") to:

  * provide overarching national strategic directions to support Australia’s high-quality maternity care system
  * enable improvements in line with contemporary practice, evidence and international developments.

This national strategy supports the delivery of maternity services to women
from conception until 12 months after the pregnancy or birth.

### **National Stillbirth Action and Implementation Plan**

In [response to a senate inquiry into
stillbirth](/resources/publications/stillbirth-research-and-education
"Stillbirth research and education"), we developed a [National stillbirth
action and implementation plan](/resources/publications/national-stillbirth-
action-and-implementation-plan "National Stillbirth Action and Implementation
Plan"). The main goal is to reduce stillbirth rates in Australia by 20% or
more by 2025.

As part of implementing the plan we are funding a wide range of [stillbirth
initiatives](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pacd-
pdb-maternity), some of which improve processes for nurses and midwives.

### **Australia’s Future Health Workforce Report**

We developed long-term, national [workforce projections for nurses and
midwives](/node/20513#nursing-and-midwifery) to 2030.

### **Cost–benefit analysis of nurse practitioner models of care**

In 2018, we commissioned KPMG to undertake a [cost–benefit analysis of nurse
practitioner models of care](/resources/publications/cost-benefit-analysis-of-
nurse-practitioner-models-of-care "Cost–benefit analysis of nurse practitioner
models of care") in Australia.

### **Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) review**

As part of their review of more than 5,700 MBS items, the MBS Taskforce
responded to input from the:

  * [Nurse Practitioner Reference Group](/resources/publications/taskforce-findings-nurse-practitioner-reference-group-report "Taskforce findings – Nurse Practitioner Reference Group report")
  * [Participating Midwife Reference Group](/resources/publications/taskforce-findings-participating-midwives-reference-group-report "Taskforce findings – Participating Midwives Reference Group report").

## **Legislation**

We administer [legislation related to health](/about-us/what-we-
do/legislation-we-administer "Legislation we administer"), including:

  * [Midwife Professional Indemnity (Commonwealth Contribution) Scheme Act 2010](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2016C00335)
  * [Midwife Professional Indemnity (Run-off Cover Support Payment) Act 2010](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2011C00495).

## Regulation and compliance

We work with Services Australia to support nurse practitioners and midwives
with compliance with Medicare claiming. Services Australia provides a [Health
Professional Education Resources
Gateway](http://medicareaust.com/MISC/MISCP02/index.html) which has a large
range of e-learning modules and other education resources.

## Initiatives and programs

We support nursing and midwifery at a national level through a range of
initiatives and programs:

  * The [Workforce Incentive Program – Practice Stream](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program/practice-stream "Workforce Incentive Program Practice Stream") provides financial support for practices to employ practice nurses.
  * The [Transition to Practice Program](/our-work/transition-to-practice-program "Transition to Practice Program") provides 12 months of support to nurses who have transitioned to primary health care. We fund the Australian Primary Health Care Nurses Association (APNA) to provide this program.
  * Australia's [National Registration and Accreditation Scheme](/our-work/national-registration-and-accreditation-scheme "National Registration and Accreditation Scheme") ensures only suitably qualified and registered people can call themselves a nurse or midwife.
  * The [Coalition of National Nursing & Midwifery Organisations (CoNNMO)](http://connmo.org.au/) is a group of more than 50 national nursing and midwifery organisations. It promotes communication between the different professional bodies in Australia. We fund CoNNMO’s twice-yearly meetings.

## Research

We fund quality clinical research through the [National Health and Medical
Research Council (NHMRC)](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/) and the [Medical Research
Future Fund](/our-work/medical-research-future-fund "Medical Research Future
Fund"). This includes support for research personnel, including nurses and
midwives.

## Consultation and engagement

We regularly consult the Australian public about issues that affect health.
Search our consultations hub for details of any currently [open
consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au/consultation_finder/?sort_on=iconsultable_enddate&sort_order=ascending&advanced=1&st=open#cs-
finder-results-container) related to nursing and midwifery.

## Who we work with

### Portfolio agencies

Our portfolio agency, the [Australian Institute of Health and Welfare
(AIHW)](https://www.aihw.gov.au/), publishes information relevant to nursing
and midwifery, including:

  * reports on the [nursing workforce](https://www.aihw.gov.au/search?search=%7B%22SearchText%22:%22nurse%22,%22ContentType%22:%5B%22%22%5D,%22IncludeArchived%22:false,%22Sort%22:%22Relevance%22%7D)
  * reports on [mothers and babies](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/population-groups/mothers-babies/overview)
  * the [Maternity Information Matrix](https://maternitymatrix.aihw.gov.au/), a national maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity dataset.

### Committees and groups

We provide the secretariat for committees that advise us on issues related to
nursing and midwifery:

  * [National Nursing and Midwifery Education Advisory Network (NNMEAN)](/committees-and-groups/national-nursing-and-midwifery-education-advisory-network "National Nursing and Midwifery Education Advisory Network")
  * [Nursing and Midwifery Strategic Reference Group](/committees-and-groups/nursing-and-midwifery-strategic-reference-group "Nursing and Midwifery Strategic Reference Group").

### Professional bodies

We work with regulatory bodies and professional associations as needed to
support the nursing and midwifery workforce. This includes:

  * [Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia](https://www.nursingmidwiferyboard.gov.au/) (NMBA)
  * [Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency](https://www.ahpra.gov.au/) (Ahpra)

## **COVID-19 Vaccination**

Nurses and midwives are the mainstay of the COVID-19 vaccination workforce.
The NMBA have issued a statement for the information of health professionals
in relation to the [vaccine
rollout](https://www.nursingmidwiferyboard.gov.au/News/2021-03-09-vaccination-
statement.aspx).

There is also information on the Department of Health [webpage](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers "Advice for COVID-19 vaccine
providers and administrators").

## **Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer**

The Australian Government appointed Professor (Practice) Alison McMillan as
its Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer in November 2019.

This role supports nurses and midwives by:

  * delivering high-level policy advice to the Minister for Health, the Executive and staff within Health
  * representing Health at national and international levels
  * being a member of the [Australian Health Protection Principle Committee](/committees-and-groups/australian-health-protection-principal-committee-ahppc "Australian Health Protection Principal Committee \(AHPPC\)") (AHPPC) and co-chair of the [Infection Control Expert Group (ICEG)](/committees-and-groups/infection-prevention-and-control-expert-group-iceg "Infection Prevention and Control Expert Group \(ICEG\)")
  * working with colleagues in Health to support the nursing workforce within aged care
  * appearing in the [news media](/news?search_api_views_fulltext=%27Chief+Nursing+and+Midwifery+Officer%27)
  * participating in training [videos and webinars](/resources/videos?search_api_views_fulltext=%27Chief+Nursing+and+Midwifery+Officer%27).

The Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer sends a newsletter 4 times a year to
keep nurses and midwives up to date with changes.

[Subscribe to the nursing and midwifery newsletter](/using-our-
websites/subscriptions/subscribe-to-our-nursing-and-midwifery-newsletter
"Subscribe to our nursing and midwifery newsletter")

![Chief Nursing and Midwifery
Officer](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-05/chief-
nursing-and-midwifery-officer.png?itok=bkpe9GsZ)

###  [ Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer ](/contacts/chief-nursing-and-
midwifery-officer?language=en)

Adjunct Professor (Practice) Alison McMillan PSM, is the Australian
Government’s Chief Nursing and Midwifery Officer.

[cnmo@health.gov.au](mailto:cnmo@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

16 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

  * [About nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/about)
  * [Nurses and midwives in Australia](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/in-australia)
  * [What we do](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/what-we-do)
  * [Support and education](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/support-and-education)
  * [News](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/nurses-and-midwives-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/nurses-and-midwives/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

