Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

[Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

# Private health insurance reforms

We have made changes to private health insurance to make it simpler and easier
for you to choose the cover that best suits you and your family.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Private health insurance reforms&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Private health insurance reforms&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)

Loading...

On this page

[ ![Cover image for YouTube video Private health insurance made
simpler](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/private-
health-insurance-reforms-campaign-radio-ad-vietnamese.jpg?itok=K6osk5mg) ]()

0:30

Transcript

Choosing the right private health insurance can be confusing.

That’s why the Australian Government is introducing reforms to make the choice
easier for everyone.

Now private health insurers must group all private hospital cover into four
tiers: Gold, Silver, Bronze and Basic, each with minimum inclusions.

Making it easier to choose the right insurance for you.

To find out more about the reforms, visit health.gov.au

Private Health Insurance made simpler.

Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra.

## **Why the reforms are needed**

More than half the Australian population – about 13.6 million people – have
private health insurance, but many people don’t fully understand what they are
getting for their money and what they are covered for.

Australians have told us they find private health insurance complex and hard
to understand what different policies cover and what they do not.

We want to make private health insurance simpler and easier for you to choose
the cover that best suits you and your family.

## **What the reforms include**

### **First wave of reforms**

The first wave of reforms included the following:

  * Private hospital cover will be classified in 4 easy to understand tiers  
– [Gold, Silver, Bronze or Basic](/resources/publications/private-health-
insurance-reforms-gold-silver-bronze-basic-product-tiers-fact-sheet "Private
health insurance reforms – Gold, Silver, Bronze, Basic product tiers – fact
sheet")

  * Health insurers will be able to offer: 
    * [discounts for young people](/resources/publications/private-health-insurance-reforms-discount-for-18-to-29-year-olds "Private health insurance reforms – discount for 18 to 29 year olds") aged between 18 and 29
    * [higher excesses in exchange for lower premiums](/resources/publications/private-health-insurance-reforms-increasing-voluntary-maximum-excess-levels "Private health insurance reforms – increasing voluntary maximum excess levels")
    * [travel and accommodation benefits](/resources/publications/private-health-insurance-reforms-travel-and-accommodation-benefits-for-regional-and-rural-consumers "Private health insurance reforms – travel and accommodation benefits for regional and rural consumers") for people who have to travel long distances for hospital treatment
    * [improved access to mental health treatment](/resources/publications/private-health-insurance-reforms-supporting-mental-health "Private health insurance reforms – supporting mental health") by allowing people to upgrade their hospital cover without re-serving a waiting period.
  * Insurers will no longer be able to offer benefits for some [natural therapies](/resources/publications/private-health-insurance-reforms-changing-coverage-for-some-natural-therapies "Private health insurance reforms – changing coverage for some natural therapies") as part of ‘extras’ policies.
  * The [Private Health Insurance Ombudsman](http://www.ombudsman.gov.au/How-we-can-help/private-health-insurance) has strengthened powers to investigate complaints and other issues.

### Second wave of reforms

The second wave of reforms included the following:

  * [Increasing the age of dependants](/resources/publications/budget-2020-21-private-health-insurance-increasing-the-age-of-dependants "Budget 2020-21: Private Health Insurance – increasing the age of dependants")
  * [Transparency of out-of-pocket costs](/resources/publications/budget-2020-21-private-health-insurance-transparency-of-out-of-pocket-costs "Budget 2020-21: Private Health Insurance – transparency of out-of-pocket costs") (see our [Medical Costs Finder](/resources/apps-and-tools/medical-costs-finder "Medical Costs Finder"))
  * [Expanding home and community-based mental health and rehabilitation care](/resources/publications/budget-2020-21-private-health-insurance-expanding-home-and-community-based-mental-health-and-rehabilitation-care "Budget 2020-21: Private Health Insurance – expanding home and community-based mental health and rehabilitation care")
  * [Actuarial studies of incentives](/resources/publications/budget-2020-21-private-health-insurance-actuarial-studies-of-incentives "Budget 2020-21: Private Health Insurance – actuarial studies of incentives") (find more information on the [AusTender website](https://www.tenders.gov.au/Atm/ShowClosed/0c8747c8-402c-4166-949a-b7d0e7f0da1b?PreviewMode=False)).

Find [more information on the second wave of
reforms](/resources/collections/budget-2020-21-supporting-our-hospitals
"Budget 2020–21: Supporting our hospitals") in the 2021–22 Budget fact sheets.

#### Increasing the age of dependants

The Australian Government is committed to improving the affordability, value,
and attractiveness of private health insurance, particularly for younger
Australians. Increasing the age of dependants able to stay on a family policy,
from 24 years of age to up to 31 years of age, will make it easier for young
people, and also people with a disability, to maintain private health
insurance.

#### How the increase to the age of dependants will work

The [Private Health Insurance Legislation Amendment (Age of Dependants) Bill
2021](https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentary_Business/Bills_Legislation/Bills_Search_Results/Result?bId=r6669)
will change the maximum allowable age for people to be covered under a family
private health insurance policy as a dependant and enable people with a
disability, regardless of their age, to be covered under a family private
health insurance policy as a dependant.

While some aspects of the definition of dependants are in legislation, such as
age ranges and partner status, insurers can define the nature of the
dependency in their insurer rules.

The definition of a person with a disability will be a person who is a
participant in the National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS). However, is
important to note that insurers will have flexibility to offer cover to people
with a disability that are not participating in the NDIS.

#### When this reform will begin

Insurers are in the process of considering the legislative amendments and
developing new products for this reform measure, which may take some time to
implement. Insurers interested in implementing the changes have indicated they
expect to be ready to offer extended dependant products in the second half of
2021.

Learn more about the [increase to the age of
dependents](/resources/publications/private-health-insurance-age-of-
dependants-measure-questions-and-answers "Private Health Insurance age of
dependants measure – questions and answers").

### **Third wave of reforms**

  * Extension to the Medicare Levy Surcharge (MLS) and Private Health Insurance (PHI) Rebate for a further 2 years
  * Review and enhance the Government’s PHI Rebate Model
  * Investigate private hospital default benefit arrangements
  * Improvements to the certification process for admitting patients to hospital.

Find [more information on the third wave of
reforms](/resources/publications/private-health-insurance-improving-
affordability-and-sustainability-of-private-health-insurance "Private Health
Insurance – Improving affordability and sustainability of private health
insurance").

## Consumer resources

![](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/preview-image-of-
private-health-insurance-hospital-cover-tiers.jpg?itok=6aMF1JWA)

###  [Private health insurance reforms – consumer resources
](/resources/collections/private-health-insurance-reforms-consumer-
resources?language=en)

These resources contain information for the general public on reforms to
private health insurance. Resources include fact sheets, an infographic and a
video about the product tiers.

## Private health insurance reforms campaign

A consumer information campaign, first launched on Sunday 17 February 2019, is
helping Australians better understand the Australian Government’s reforms to
make private health insurance simpler.  
  
Campaign materials are available below. Many of these are also available in 5
other languages.

![Cover image for Making private health insurance simpler for everyone
campaign fact
sheet](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/private-
health-insurance-reforms-campaign-materials.jpg?itok=Rmzi3hpW)

###  [Private health insurance reforms – campaign materials
](/resources/collections/private-health-insurance-reforms-campaign-
materials?language=en)

These campaign materials outline the Government’s reforms to private health
insurance.  
  
Several resources are available in English and 5 other languages, including
Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese, Arabic, Vietnamese and Korean.

## Private health insurance reform data quarterly reports

![Sample image of a report
cover.](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2019/12/private-
health-insurance-reform-data-quarterly-trends-reports.png?itok=GmzB7ALU)

###  [Private health insurance reform data quarterly trends reports
](/resources/collections/private-health-insurance-reform-data-quarterly-
trends-reports?language=en)

This report provides statistic and data trends on private health insurance
reforms by quarter.

![Australian Government Coat of
Arms](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/australian-
government-coat-of-arms.png?itok=ORVyjubF)

Last updated:

29 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

  * [About private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance)
  * [What private health insurance covers](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers)
  * [Private health insurance reforms](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms)
    * [Clinical Categories Review](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms/clinical-categories-review)
    * [Natural Therapies Review 2019-20](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms/natural-therapies-review-2019-20)
    * [Type C hospital certification](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-reforms/type-c-hospital-certification)
  * [Operating rules](/topics/private-health-insurance/operating-rules-for-private-health-insurers-and-providers)
  * [The Prostheses List](/topics/private-health-insurance/the-prostheses-list)
  * [News](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/private-health-insurance/private-health-insurance-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

