Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  4. [Getting your COVID-19 vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)

[Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination)

# COVID-19 booster vaccine advice

Learn about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, who they are recommended for,
when you need one and how to get it.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=COVID-19 booster vaccine advice&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=COVID-19 booster vaccine advice&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)

Loading...

Information in your language  Albanian - ShqipAmharic - አማርኛArabic -
العربيةArmenian - ՀայերենAssyrian - ܐܵܬܘܿܪܵܝܵܐBengali - বাংলাBosnian -
BosanskiBulgarian - БългарскиBurmese - မြန်မာChin Hakha - Laiholh
(Hakha)Chinese, Simplified - 简体中文Chinese, Traditional - 繁體中文Croatian -
HrvatskiDari - دریDinka - ThuɔŋjäŋDutch - NederlandsEnglishFinnish -
SuomiFrench - FrançaisGerman - DeutschGreek - ΕλληνικάGujarati -
ગુજરાતીHazaragi - هزاره گیHebrew - עבריתHindi - हिन्दीHmongIndonesian - Bahasa
IndonesiaItalian - ItalianoJapanese - 日本語Karen - ကညီကျိၥ်KhmerKirundi -
RundiKorean - 한국어Kurdish - KurdîLaotian - LaoMacedonian - МакедонскиMalayalam
- മലയാളംMaltese - MaltiNepali - नेपालीPashto - پښتوPersian, Farsi -
فارسیPolish - PolskiPortuguese - PortuguêsPunjabi - ਪੰਜਾਬੀRohingya -
RuáingaRomanian - RomânăRussian - РусскийSamoan - SamoaSerbian - СрпскиSinhala
- සිංහලSlovak - SlovenčinaSlovenian - SlovenščinaSomaliSpanish -
EspañolSwahili - KiswahiliTagalogTamil - தமிழ்Thai - ภาษาไทยTibetan -
བོད་སྐད།Tigrinya - ትግርኛTurkish - TürkçeUkrainian - УкраїнськаUrdu -
اردوVietnamese - Tiếng Việt

On this page

To receive the best protection against serious illness or death from COVID-19,
you should get all the recommended doses for your age or individual health
needs. Boosters are important to maintain this protection.

Booster doses are free for everyone.

Information about booster doses is also available [in your
language](/node/18208).

## Booster doses

All adults can get a booster if it’s been 6 months or longer since their last
COVID-19 booster or confirmed infection (whichever is most recent) for
additional protection against severe illness from COVID.

This is particularly recommended for people at higher risk of severe illness,
including:

  * everyone 65 years and over
  * everyone 18 years and over with medical comorbidities, disability or complex health needs.

Children and young people aged 5 to 17 years can get a booster dose if:

  * they have a health condition that put them at risk of severe illness, and
  * if it’s been 6 months since their last dose or COVID-19 infection. 

Your doctor can help you decide if your child should receive a booster.

Booster doses are not recommended at this time for children and adolescents
under 18 years of age who do not have any risk factors for severe COVID-19.

All vaccines are approved for use in Australia and continue to provide very
strong protection against serious illness from COVID-19, however, Omicron-
specific bivalent vaccines are preferred for boosters.

The date you had your last COVID-19 vaccine is on your COVID-19 [digital
certificate](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines/certificates).

[Find a clinic and book](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-
services)

## How to book booster doses

To book a booster dose, use the [health Service
Finder](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services) or use
‘Hey Eva’ – Easy Vaccine Access.

[EVA,](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/easy-vaccine-access)
is a simple callback service to help people book a COVID-19 vaccine.

If you need help making a COVID-19 vaccine booking, SMS ‘ **Hey EVA’** to 0481
611 382. A trained call agent from the National Coronavirus Helpline will call
you to help book your COVID-19 vaccination.

## Booster program for residential aged care

A booster program is taking place in residential aged care facilities. Read
more about the COVID-19 booster dose vaccination program in [residential aged
care](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-
residents-about-covid-19-vaccines/residential-aged-care-residents).

## Booster program for people with disability

A booster program is being rolled out for people with disability who live in
shared residential accommodation. Learn more about the COVID-19 booster dose
program for [people with disability living in shared residential
accommodation](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-
winter-dose-program-for-the-phn-and-disability-sector).

## Safety of COVID-19 booster doses

Common, mild side effects following a booster dose look similar to the side
effects following the first 2 doses.

See information about [COVID-19 vaccine safety and side
effects](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines/approved-vaccines/safety-side-effects).

Last updated:

5 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
    * [Where you can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/locations)
    * [If you don't have a Medicare card](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card)
    * [Before your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/before)
    * [After your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/after)
    * [Booster doses](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)
    * [If you’ve already had COVID-19](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/vaccination-after-covid-19-infection)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

