Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review

The Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Policy and Methods Review is an
opportunity to ensure Australia’s HTA policy is constantly improving under
evaluation.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/health-technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/health-technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/health-technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review)

Loading...

On this page

#### Consultation 1 information

Public consultation focusing on the key objectives of the Review set out in
the terms of reference is open for submission from 11 April 2023 and will
close on 6 June 2023.

For more information on how to participate visit the [Office of Health
Technology Assessment Consultation Hub](https://ohta-
consultations.health.gov.au/ohta/hta-review-consultation1/).

#### Deep-dive discussions with the Reference Committee

Expressions of interest for in-depth (deep-dive) discussions on the HTA Review
is open from 16 May 2023 and will close on 1 September 2023.

For more information on how to register an expression of interest visit the
[Office of Health Technology Assessment Consultation Hub](https://ohta-
consultations.health.gov.au/ohta/hta-review-deep-dive-eoi/).

If you need help with participating in consultation or registering an
expression of interest you can email the HTA Review secretariat –
[HTAReviewConsult@health.gov.au](mailto:HTAReviewConsult@health.gov.au).

## About the HTA Review

Health technology assessments inform Government decisions to fund and
subsidise health technologies through subsidy schemes and funding programs.
This includes:

  * the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
  * the Medicare Benefits Schedule
  * the National Immunisation Program
  * the Life Saving Drugs Program.

An HTA involves a range of processes and mechanisms that use scientific
evidence to assess the quality, safety, efficacy, effectiveness and cost-
effectiveness of health technologies.

Health technology assessment methods continuously evolve, necessitating
periodic review and update.

The HTA Review is one of the main commitments under the [2022-27 Strategic
Agreement between the Commonwealth and Medicines
Australia](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/general/medicines-industry-strategic-
agreement). Under the Strategic Agreement, the Commonwealth has committed to
supporting and resourcing the HTA Review, which a reference committee will
oversee. The Minister for Health and Aged Care has appointed the following
individuals to the Reference Committee.

**Member** | **Role on the Reference Committee**  
---|---  
Adjunct Professor Debora Picone AO | Independent Chair  
Ms Ann Single | Patient Representative  
Dr Dawn Casey PSM | Patient Representative  
Professor Andrew Wilson | Chair of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory
Committee (PBAC)  
Professor Andrew Roberts AM | Clinical/Scientific Representative  
Ms Elizabeth de Somer | Member nominated by Medicines Australia  
Ms Adriana Platona PSM | Government Nominee  
  
## Strategic Agreements with the Medicines Industry

The HTA Review is one of the key commitments in the [Strategic
Agreement](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/general/medicines-industry-strategic-
agreement).

The Strategic Agreement includes commitments to several reforms and reform
processes which ensure that Australians can:

  * access break-through new medicines as early as possible
  * deliver a robust and uninterrupted supply of the medicines Australians use every day.

## Resources

The Reference Committee’s role, and details about its meetings are on the [HTA
Review Reference Committee](/committees-and-groups/hta-review-reference-
committee "HTA Review Reference Committee") Page.

## Why it is important

The commitment to support and resource the HTA Review was made in recognition
of goals shared by the Commonwealth and Medicines Australia of:

  * reducing time to access for Australians so that they can access new health technologies as early as possible
  * maintaining the attractiveness of Australia as a first-launch country to build on Australia’s status as a world leader in providing access to affordable healthcare

by ensuring that our assessment processes keep pace with rapidly advancing
health technology and minimise barriers to access.

## Goals

The HTA Review will examine HTA policy and methods, while consulting
stakeholders to identify features that:

  1. are working effectively
  2. may act as current or future barriers to earliest possible access
  3. may act as current or future barriers to equitable access
  4. detract from person-centredness
  5. may be creating perverse incentives.

## Terms of reference for the HTA Review

The HTA Review [terms of reference](/resources/publications/health-technology-
assessment-policy-and-methods-review-terms-of-reference "Health Technology
Assessment Policy and Methods Review – terms of reference") sets out:

  * the background to the HTA Review
  * how the HTA Review will take account of recent and concurrent reform processes that impact HTA
  * HTA Review objectives
  * areas under consideration by the HTA Review.

The final terms of reference takes into account feedback from organisations
representing:

  * patients
  * consumers
  * industry
  * advisory bodies
  * Commonwealth and state and territory governments.

The list of stakeholders the HTA Review Reference Committee sought feedback
from is available in the 1 December 2022 and 19 December 2022 meeting
communiques.

## **Research and analysis**

The HTA Review Reference Committee has agreed on two experts in HTA to support
the HTA Review. This includes:

  * the University of Adelaide (Adelaide Health Technology Assessment)
  * the University of Technology Sydney (Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation).

In addition to feedback from stakeholders collected through consultations, the
HTA Policy and Methods Review will be informed by:

  * papers analysing policy and methods used by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee
  * contemporary research
  * relevant methodologies
  * purchasing practices used by comparable international jurisdictions.

These papers will be prepared by the experts in HTA and the department.

For more details about the research and analysis, see the [Research and
Analysis Plan Overview](/resources/publications/research-and-analysis-plan-
evidence-to-support-the-hta-review "Research and analysis plan – Evidence to
support the HTA Review").

## How to take part

To ensure that the reference committee has a well-informed understanding of
issues and perspectives from a broad range of stakeholders, there will be
multiple opportunities for stakeholders to give input during the HTA Review.

Consultation 1 will be open to all stakeholders to provide a submission from
11 April 2023 to 6 June 2023.

Expressions of interest for deep-dive discussions with the Reference Committee
will be open to all stakeholders from 16 May 2023 to 1 September 2023.

For further details about the opportunities to provide input throughout the
review, see the [Consultation Plan Overview](/resources/publications/health-
technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review-consultation-plan "Health
Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review – Consultation plan").

For an overview of the work planned under the review including key milestones,
see the [HTA Review Work Plan overview](/resources/publications/health-
technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review-work-plan "Health Technology
Assessment Policy and Methods Review – Work plan").

Subscribe to [PBS News and Updates](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/subscribe) to
keep up to date with the HTA Review and receive notification about HTA Review
stakeholder consultations.

## Learn more

If you have any questions about the HTA Policy and Methods Review, see our
[frequently asked questions](/resources/publications/health-technology-
assessment-policy-and-methods-review-frequently-asked-questions "Health
Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review – Frequently Asked Questions
").

For definitions of terms used in the HTA Review, see our
[glossary](/resources/publications/health-technology-assessment-policy-and-
methods-review-glossary "Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods
Review – Glossary").

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ HTA Review Secretariat ](/contacts/hta-review-secretariat?language=en)

Contact for the Health Technology Assessment Review

[htareviewconsult@health.gov.au](mailto:htareviewconsult@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

26 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

