Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care)

[Allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care)

# Allied health news

Read the latest news on allied health.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Allied health news&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/allied-health-care/allied-health-news)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/allied-health-care/allied-health-news)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Allied health news&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/allied-health-care/allied-health-news)

Loading...

## News

### [Chief Allied Health Officer Newsletter Issue 4 – December 2022
](/news/newsletters/chief-allied-health-officer-newsletter-
issue-4-december-2022?language=en)

22 December 2022

Newsletter

In this issue: message from Dr Anne-marie Boxall, updates on strengthening
Medicare Taskforce engagement with Allied Health Sector, Online Aged Care
Training Material and Health Roundtable news held in Hobart in November 2022.

[ ![Presentations and recordings from the recent Australia/New Zealand Allied
Health Summit are now
available](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/news/2022/10/presentations-
and-recordings-from-the-recent-australia-new-zealand-allied-health-summit-are-
now-available.jpg?itok=-AcvP8oJ) ](/news/presentations-and-recordings-from-
the-recent-australianew-zealand-allied-health-summit-are-now-available)

### [Presentations and recordings from the recent Australia/New Zealand Allied
Health Summit are now available ](/news/presentations-and-recordings-from-the-
recent-australianew-zealand-allied-health-summit-are-now-
available?language=en)

2 November 2022

News

Revisit the Australia/New Zealand Allied Health Summit held in August 2022.
This year’s theme was demonstrating the value and utility of allied health
care.

### [Your Aged Care update Issue 18, 2022 ](/news/newsletters/your-aged-care-
update-issue-18-2022?language=en)

13 September 2022

Newsletter

Your Aged Care Update #18: Celebrating 30 years of Community Visitors Scheme,
financial reporting information, and more.

### [Your Aged Care update Issue 17, 2022 ](/news/newsletters/your-aged-care-
update-issue-17-2022?language=en)

6 September 2022

Newsletter

Your Aged Care Update #17: Read about Default AN-ACC classifications,
Palliative care arrangements, HCP program assurance community of practice,
Webinar's, open consultation

### [Chief Allied Health Officer Newsletter Issue 3 – August 2022
](/news/newsletters/chief-allied-health-officer-newsletter-
issue-3-august-2022?language=en)

14 September 2022

Newsletter

In this issue: message from Dr Anne-marie Boxall, Interview with
physiotherapist Dan Searle, Support for allied health professionals, students,
and researchers and more.

[ ![Photo of workshop
attendees](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/news/2021/11/workshop-
on-rural-allied-health-service-and-learning-consortia_0.jpg?itok=TJYCUwTk)
](/news/workshop-on-rural-allied-health-service-and-learning-consortia)

### [Workshop on rural allied health service and learning consortia
](/news/workshop-on-rural-allied-health-service-and-learning-
consortia?language=en)

14 December 2021

News

On 1 June 2021, more than 90 stakeholders from all over Australia gathered in
Queenstown, Tasmania to discuss service and learning consortia for allied
health.

### [Chief Allied Health Officer Newsletter Issue 1 – August 2021
](/news/newsletters/chief-allied-health-officer-newsletter-
issue-1-august-2021?language=en)

9 August 2021

Newsletter

In this issue: message from Dr Anne-marie Boxall, new initiatives to support
access to allied health services and support for allied health professionals,
students, and researchers

[ ![Allied health
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/news/2022/07/australia-
and-new-zealand-allied-health-summit-2022.jpg?itok=UesY0AQR)
](/news/australia-and-new-zealand-allied-health-summit-2022)

### [Australia and New Zealand Allied Health Summit 2022 ](/news/australia-
and-new-zealand-allied-health-summit-2022?language=en)

News

Join us for a 2-day virtual event 25–26 August 2022, as we discuss and explore
the value and utility of allied health.

### [Chief Allied Health Officer Newsletter Issue 2 – December 2021
](/news/newsletters/chief-allied-health-officer-newsletter-
issue-2-december-2021?language=en)

4 January 2022

Newsletter

In this issue: message from Dr Anne-marie Boxall, new initiatives to support
access to allied health services and support for allied health professionals,
students, and researchers

[View all news](/news?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC)

Last updated:

23 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care)

  * [About allied health care](/topics/allied-health/about)
  * [Who can provide allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care/who-can-provide)
  * [How allied health helps people](/topics/allied-health/how-it-helps)
  * [What we're doing about allied health](/topics/allied-health/what-we-do)
  * [News](/topics/allied-health-care/allied-health-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/allied-health/allied-health-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/allied-health/allied-health-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

