Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  4. [Getting your COVID-19 vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)

[Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination)

# After your COVID-19 vaccination

Find out what to do after your COVID-19 vaccination, including how to get your
vaccination certificate, what you need to do to stay safe and what to do if
you have side effects.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=After your COVID-19 vaccination&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/after)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/after)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=After your COVID-19 vaccination&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/after)

Loading...

Information in your language  Albanian - ShqipAmharic - አማርኛArabic -
العربيةArmenian - ՀայերենAssyrian - ܐܵܬܘܿܪܵܝܵܐBengali - বাংলাBosnian -
BosanskiBulgarian - БългарскиBurmese - မြန်မာChin Hakha - Laiholh
(Hakha)Chinese, Simplified - 简体中文Chinese, Traditional - 繁體中文Croatian -
HrvatskiDari - دریDinka - ThuɔŋjäŋDutch - NederlandsEnglishFinnish -
SuomiFrench - FrançaisGerman - DeutschGreek - ΕλληνικάGujarati -
ગુજરાતીHazaragi - هزاره گیHebrew - עבריתHindi - हिन्दीHmongIndonesian - Bahasa
IndonesiaItalian - ItalianoJapanese - 日本語Karen - ကညီကျိၥ်KhmerKirundi -
RundiKorean - 한국어Kurdish - KurdîLaotian - LaoMacedonian - МакедонскиMalayalam
- മലയാളംMaltese - MaltiNepali - नेपालीPashto - پښتوPersian, Farsi -
فارسیPolish - PolskiPortuguese - PortuguêsPunjabi - ਪੰਜਾਬੀRohingya -
RuáingaRomanian - RomânăRussian - РусскийSamoan - SamoaSerbian - СрпскиSinhala
- සිංහලSlovak - SlovenčinaSlovenian - SlovenščinaSomaliSpanish -
EspañolSwahili - KiswahiliTagalogTamil - தமிழ்Thai - ภาษาไทยTibetan -
བོད་སྐད།Tigrinya - ትግርኛTurkish - TürkçeUkrainian - УкраїнськаUrdu -
اردوVietnamese - Tiếng Việt

On this page

## It takes time to build immunity

It takes time for your body to build up an immune response after you get your
vaccination.

This [ATAGI recommended doses and
vaccines](https://health.govcms.gov.au/resources/publications/atagi-
recommended-covid-19-doses-and-vaccines) outlines which vaccines and doses are
recommended for each age and population group.

This [infographic](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-when-to-get-
your-covid-19-vaccination "COVID-19 vaccination – When to get your COVID-19
vaccination") outlines when to get your COVID-19 vaccination and which
vaccines and doses are recommended.

You will get partial protection around 12 days after the first dose of your
primary course. The second dose of your primary course encourages your body to
create stronger protection (immunity). A third primary course dose is required
for severely immunocompromised people.

It takes 7 to 14 days after a booster dose before you get stronger protection.

Find out more about [booster doses](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination/booster-doses "COVID-19 booster vaccine advice").

## How long protection lasts

COVID-19 vaccines are working very well to protect against severe illness,
hospitalisations and death. However, their effectiveness against infections
decreases over time. Researchers around the world are finding out:

  * how long protection lasts
  * if you need booster doses, such as an yearly booster.

Right now, you can book your free booster dose if it has been 6 months or
longer since your last dose of your COVID-19 vaccine.

Learn more about [booster doses](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-
vaccination/booster-doses "COVID-19 booster vaccine advice").

## Get a COVID-19 digital certificate

You can get a vaccination certificate after you have completed your primary
course of COVID-19 vaccination. It can take about 2 weeks after your second
dose to become available.

You can get proof of your COVID-19 vaccination by accessing your Immunisation
History Statement.

You can access your Immunisation History Statement:

  * online, by setting up your own [myGov account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/online-help/create-mygov-account) and then accessing your [Medicare online account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-online-accounts)
  * through the [Express Plus Medicare mobile app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-plus-medicare-mobile-app).

If you do not have a Medicare card, or do not have access to a myGov account,
you can access your Immunisation History Statement by:

  * asking your vaccination provider to print a copy for you
  * calling the Australian Immunisation Register enquiries line on [1800 653 809](tel: 1800653809) (8 am – 5 pm Monday to Friday AEST) and asking them to send your statement to you in the mail. It can take up to 14 days to arrive in the mail.

For more information on how to get proof of your COVID-19 vaccinations, see
the [Services Australia
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/getting-
help-during-coronavirus-covid-19/covid-19-vaccinations/how-get-proof).

## **Side effects**

Serious or allergic reactions to vaccines are very rare. They usually occur
within 15 minutes of receiving a vaccine.

You will be monitored for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. The
person who gives you the vaccine has been trained to respond to immediate
reactions.

### If you have side effects of vaccination

Most potential side effects are mild and go away in a few days. Very rarely,
side effects might be more serious.

Learn [when you should seek help for side effects](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines/safety-side-effects "COVID-19 vaccine
safety and side effects").

You can check any symptoms you are experiencing through healthdirect's symptom
checker.

[Check side effect symptoms](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/covid-19-vaccine-
side-effect-checker)

You can also call the national coronavirus and COVID-19 vaccine helpline on
[1800 020 080](tel:1800020080) any time.

Find out more about general [vaccine safety and side effects](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines/safety-side-effects "COVID-19 vaccine
safety and side effects"), or see specific side effects associated with:

  * [Comirnaty (Pfizer)](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines/pfizer "Comirnaty \(Pfizer\)")
  * [Spikevax (Moderna)](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines/moderna "Spikevax \(Moderna\)")
  * [Nuvaxovid (Novavax](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/covid-19-vaccines/approved-vaccines/novavax)).

## Report a suspected reaction or side effect

Reporting suspected side effects and reactions helps us monitor vaccine
safety. Every report is valuable and helps ensure vaccination is safe.

If you or a doctor thinks you have had a reaction or side effect from
vaccination, please report it.

You can ask your doctor to [report to the Therapeutic Goods
Administration](https://www.tga.gov.au/reporting-suspected-side-effects-
associated-covid-19-vaccine) (TGA) for you.

Or you can report side effects yourself:

  * to your [state or territory health department](/about-us/contact-us/local-state-and-territory-health-departments "Local state and territory health departments")
  * to the [NPS MedicineWise Adverse Medicine Events Line](https://www.nps.org.au/adverse-medicine-events-line) on [1300 134 237](tel:1300134237)
  * via the [TGA's online reporting form](https://aems.tga.gov.au/).

If you have experienced a rare side effect you may be eligible for
compensation under our [COVID-19 vaccine injury compensation scheme](/our-
work/covid-19-vaccine-claims-scheme "COVID-19 Vaccine Claims Scheme").

Last updated:

30 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
    * [Where you can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/locations)
    * [If you don't have a Medicare card](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/no-medicare-card)
    * [Before your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/before)
    * [After your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/after)
    * [Booster doses](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/booster-doses)
    * [If you’ve already had COVID-19](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination/vaccination-after-covid-19-infection)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

