Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Health technologies and digital health

Health technologies play a role in nearly every area of health. Using digital
information and modern communication technologies effectively is vital to the
future of our health system.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Health technologies and digital health&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Health technologies and digital health&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation)

Loading...

###  [ About health technologies and digital health ](/topics/health-
technologies-and-digital-health/about)

Find out what we mean by these terms.

###  [ What we do ](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/what-we-do)

Read about our role and responsibilities in the areas of health technologies
and digital health.

###  [ Health technology assessments (HTAs) ](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health/health-technology-assessments)

Learn how we use HTAs to assess the value of medicines, vaccines, medical
devices and medical services.

###  [ Reform and reviews ](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-
health/health-technology-assessments/reviews)

Find out about current HTA reforms and reviews.

[View all health technologies and digital health information](/topics/health-
technologies-and-digital-health/about)

## Latest news

## Latest news

###  [ National Cabinet Statement on a better future for the federation
](/news/national-cabinet-statement-on-a-better-future-for-the-
federation?language=en)

See the below statement, released following the conclusion of National Cabinet
on Friday 28 April 2023.

28 April 2023

###  [ Your Aged Care Update issue 23, 2022 ](/news/newsletters/your-aged-
care-update-issue-23-2022?language=en)

Your Aged Care Update #23: Consultation for Aged Care Quality Standards, HCP
Program Assurance Community of Practice: Live chat session, Discussion paper:
In-home aged care, a Grant Opportunity and more

18 October 2022

![covid-19 vaccine
tile](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/images/news/2022/05/our-
journey-our-story.jpg?itok=ysuA6K6B)

###  [ Our Journey Our Story ](/news/our-journey-our-story?language=en)

26 May 2022

[View more news](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-
health/news?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC)

## Related initiatives and programs

## Related initiatives and programs

### [2020–25 National Health Reform Agreement (NHRA) ](/our-
work/2020-25-national-health-reform-agreement-nhra?language=en)

Signed by all Australian governments, the 2020–25 Addendum to National Health
Reform Agreement (NHRA) aims to improve health outcomes for all Australians
and ensure our health system is sustainable.

### [Better Access initiative ](/our-work/better-access-
initiative?language=en)

The Better Access initiative gives Medicare rebates to help people access
mental health professionals and care, regardless of where they live. Find out
how the initiative works, who is eligible and how you can access supports.

### [Electronic prescribing ](/our-work/electronic-prescribing?language=en)

Electronic prescribing is now widely available. It provides an option for
prescribers and their patients to use an electronic prescription as an
alternative to paper prescriptions. Paper prescriptions are still available.

[View more initiatives and programs](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-
health/initiatives-and-programs?sort_by=title&sort_order=ASC)

![digitalhealth.gov.au
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/digital_health_agency_website_logo.jpg?itok=d9WYKja8)

### Australian Digital Health Agency

Our portfolio agency, the Australian Digital Health Agency, aims to improve
health outcomes for Australians through the delivery of national digital
health services and systems.

See its site for details on how to use services like My Health Record,
telehealth, electronic prescriptions and more.

[Visit the agency's site](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au)

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review Reference Committee
Communique – 12 May 2023 meeting](/sites/default/files/2023-05/health-
technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review-reference-committee-
communique-12-may-2023-meeting.png)

### [Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review Reference
Committee Communique – 12 May 2023 meeting ](/resources/publications/health-
technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review-reference-committee-
communique-12-may-2023-meeting?language=en)

26 May 2023

Meeting minutes

A update from the Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods review
Reference Committee following their meeting on 12 May 2023.

![Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review – Reference committee
meeting agenda – 22 May 2023](/sites/default/files/2023-05/health-technology-
assessment-policy-and-methods-review-reference-committee-meeting-
agenda-22-may-2023.png)

### [Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review – Reference
committee meeting agenda – 22 May 2023 ](/resources/publications/health-
technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review-reference-committee-meeting-
agenda-22-may-2023?language=en)

26 May 2023

Agenda

Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review Reference Committee
agenda for the 10th meeting on 22 May 2023.

![Cover image](/sites/default/files/2023-05/health-technology-assessment-
policy-and-methods-review-reference-committee-meeting-agenda-12-may-2023.jpg)

### [Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review – Reference
committee meeting agenda – 12 May 2023 ](/resources/publications/health-
technology-assessment-policy-and-methods-review-reference-committee-meeting-
agenda-12-may-2023?language=en)

11 May 2023

Agenda

Health Technology Assessment Policy and Methods Review Reference Committee
agenda for the 8th meeting on 12 May 2023.

![""](/sites/default/files/2023-05/draft-national-joint-replacement-registry-
cost-recovery-implementation-statement.jpg)

### [Draft National Joint Replacement Registry cost recovery implementation
statement ](/resources/publications/draft-national-joint-replacement-registry-
cost-recovery-implementation-statement?language=en)

11 May 2023

Report

This statement describes how we recover the costs of administering the
National Joint Replacement Registry.

[View more resources](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-
health/resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

