Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Resources](/resources)
  3. [Apps and tools](/resources/apps-and-tools)

[Apps and tools](/resources/apps-and-tools)

# Medical Costs Finder

The Medical Costs Finder helps you find and understand the typical cost of
common specialist services across Australia.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medical Costs Finder&url=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/medical-costs-finder)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/medical-costs-finder)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medical Costs Finder&body=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/medical-costs-finder)

Loading...

![Medical Costs Finder logo illustration of a face with a magnifying glass
held up to the
eye](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/medical-costs-
finder_0.jpg?itok=HoFOjFRn)

Scroll down to access downloads and media.

On this page

[Launch the Medical Costs Finder](https://medicalcostsfinder.health.gov.au)

## What the Medical Costs Finder is

The Medical Costs Finder is an online tool. It helps patients find the typical
cost of specialist medical services.

It covers common services in and out of hospital. We will continue to add more
services over time.

## How the Medical Costs Finder helps you

You can use the tool to see:

  * how much people have typically paid out-of-pocket for a medical service what services you may receive before, during and after a procedure 
  * the indicative fees that individual specialists charge for a particular location.

In some cases, you will also see Medicare and private health insurance
payments. These could affect the out-of-pocket costs you may pay.

**Please note:** the website shows data where it is available and provided to
us.

## Using the Medical Costs Finder

To use the tool, start by searching the name or [MBS item
number](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/a-z)
of your service. You can also browse by the service, procedure, specialty and
more.

To launch the Medical Costs Finder tool, click the button below.

For best results, we recommend using the latest version of your web browser.

[Launch the Medical Costs Finder](https://medicalcostsfinder.health.gov.au)

## More support for making financial decisions

  * Learn more about [out-of-pocket costs](/topics/private-health-insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/out-of-pocket-costs "Out of pocket costs") and when you might have to pay them.
  * See our [practical tips for exploring your medical cost options](https://medicalcostsfinder.health.gov.au/resources/guide-to-out-of-pocket-medical-costs).
  * Find out more about [informed financial consent](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications-and-news-pages/publication-pages/brochures-and-factsheets/factsheets/private-health-insurance/informed-financial-consent). 

## Disclaimer

See the Medical Costs Finder
[disclaimer](https://medicalcostsfinder.health.gov.au/disclaimer) and [terms
of use](https://medicalcostsfinder.health.gov.au/terms-of-use).

## For medical specialists

Medical specialists can now participate via the Medical Costs Finder portal.

[Sign up or log in](https://medicalcostsfinderportal.health.gov.au/)

Participation by medical specialists is voluntary and helps improve cost
transparency for patients.

For further information, see the Medical Costs Finder portal [terms of
use](https://medicalcostsfinder.health.gov.au/portal-terms-of-use) and
[privacy notice](https://medicalcostsfinder.health.gov.au/portal-privacy-
notice).

### Supporting your patient

You may need to help your patient understand the [implications of out-of-
pocket
costs](https://medicalcostsfinder.health.gov.au/resources/understanding-out-
of-pocket-costs).

Knowing how much treatment will cost is called informed financial consent. The
government encourages medical specialists to practise informed financial
consent with their patients.

For more information, please see the [Australian Medical Association’s guide
on informed financial
consent](https://www.ombudsman.gov.au/publications/brochures-and-fact-
sheets/factsheets/all-fact-sheets/phio/informed-financial-consent).

Resource published:

11 November 2022

Last updated:

16 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

