Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Continuous Review

The MBS Continuous Review ensures the MBS continues to support high-quality
care, remains flexible, and stays up to date. We do this through a process of
ongoing expert reviews.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\) Continuous Review&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\) Continuous Review&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review)

Loading...

On this page

## **About the initiative**

The MBS Continuous Review involves the ongoing review of Medicare items and
services by experts.

This builds on the work of the [MBS Review Taskforce](/node/22650) and its
[MBS Review](/node/22690). From 2015 to 2020, the taskforce reviewed more than
5,700 MBS items for clinical efficacy and relevance. The taskforce’s
recommendations have delivered significant improvements in patient care.

The MBS Continuous Review is supported by the [Medicare Benefits Schedule
(MBS) Review Advisory Committee (MRAC)](/node/32151). The MRAC is led by
Conjoint Professor Anne Duggan (Chair) and Ms Jo Watson (Deputy Chair), who
were [appointed in September 2021](/node/27875).

## **Why it is important**

The MBS Continuous Review ensures the MBS continues to support high-quality
care and remains flexible and contemporary. Ongoing rigorous, comprehensive
review and analysis is essential for a consistent, clear and evidence-based
MBS that works for patients and health professionals alike.

## **News and updates**

When the Government endorses implementation of a recommendation, we announce
it through:

  * a [newsletter for stakeholders](/node/28016)
  * information about [Government responses](/node/26252) on our website
  * implementation advice through news items and fact sheets on [MBS Online](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * announcements in the Government’s annual Budget and Mid‑Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook.

For more information and updates on the MRAC, visit the [MBS Review Advisory
Committee (MRAC)](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/medicare-
benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac) page.

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

## Contact

Contact us with questions about the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)
Continuous Review.

[MBSContinuousReview@health.gov.au](mailto:MBSContinuousReview@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

23 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review ](/our-work/mbs-review)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

