Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Dental health

Having healthy teeth, mouth and gums is important for your general health and
wellbeing. It means you can eat, drink and speak without pain or discomfort.
Find out what we’re doing to support dental health services in Australia.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Dental health&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/dental-health)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/dental-health)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Dental health&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/dental-health)

Loading...

###  [ Australia’s National Oral Health Plan 2015–2024
](/resources/publications/healthy-mouths-healthy-lives-australias-national-
oral-health-plan-2015-2024)

Learn about our national plan to promote healthy mouths, healthy lives.

###  [ Child Dental Benefits Schedule ](/our-work/child-dental-benefits-
schedule)

Find out more about the Child Dental Benefits Schedule (CDBS).

###  [ CDBS resources for dentists ](/resources/collections/cdbs-resources-
for-dental-service-providers)

Use this collection of resources for dental practitioners when providing
services to patients under the CDBS.

###  [ Reviews of the Dental Benefits Act 2008
](/resources/collections/reviews-of-the-dental-benefits-act-2008)

Read the reports of our regular reviews of the Dental Benefits Act 2008.

## About dental health

Dental health in Australia has improved over the last 25 to 30 years. Changes
such as adding [fluoride to drinking water](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/about-
us/publications/2017-public-statement-water-fluoridation-and-human-
health#block-views-block-file-attachments-content-block-1) have helped to
reduce tooth decay in children and adults.

But there is still room to improve. [Dental health
statistics](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/health-conditions-disability-
deaths/dental-oral-health/overview) show that in Australia:

  * 3 in 10 people delay or avoid seeing a dentist because of the cost
  * 1 in 4 children (aged 5 to 10) have untreated decay in their baby teeth
  * 1 in 25 people (aged 15 and over) have no natural teeth left.

### Make an appointment with your local public dental clinic

To help improve dental health, state and territory governments provide public
dental services. Visit the website of your state or territory dental service
to see if you’re eligible:

  * Australian Capital Territory – [ACT Health](https://www.health.act.gov.au/services/dental)
  * New South Wales – [NSW Health](https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/oralhealth/Pages/default.aspx)
  * Northern Territory – [Department of Health](https://nt.gov.au/wellbeing/hospitals-health-services/dental-services)
  * Queensland – [Queensland Health](https://www.qld.gov.au/health/services/oral-eye-ear/dental-services)
  * South Australia – [SA Dental](https://www.sahealth.sa.gov.au/wps/wcm/connect/public+content/sa+health+internet/services/dental+diagnostic+and+pharmacy+services/dental+services)
  * Tasmania – [Oral Health Tasmania](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/health-topics/dental-health/dental-health-services)
  * Victoria – [Department of Health](https://www.health.vic.gov.au/dental-health/access-to-victorias-public-dental-care-services)
  * Western Australia – [Dental Health Services](https://www.dental.wa.gov.au/).

If you have private health insurance, you may be able to claim for dental
treatments. Learn [more about extras cover](/node/8981).

## What we’re doing about dental health

### Child Dental Benefits Schedule

The Australian Government, through the [Child Dental Benefits Schedule
(CDBS)](/node/37644), supports access to dental services for eligible
children, aiming to help children develop and maintain good oral health early
in life.

The CDBS is a legislative scheme defined under the [Dental Benefits Act
2008](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00006) and [Dental Benefits
Rules 2014](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2022C00042).

#### For parents and guardians

The CDBS covers part, or all, of the costs (up to $1026 over 2 calendar years)
for basic dental services for children up to 17 years of age. Learn [more
about the CDBS](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/child-dental-benefits-
schedule), and whether your child is eligible, on Service Australia’s website.

#### For service providers

Services Australia also have information about the [CDBS for dental service
providers](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/child-dental-benefits-
schedule-for-health-professionals).

There are a [range of resources](/node/37548) to help you make sure claims
paid under the CDBS:

  * meet legal requirements
  * [comply with Medicare](/node/28372#medicare-compliance)
  * [reduce the risk of incorrect billing](/node/22934).

## Is your child eligible for the Child Dental Benefits Schedule

To find out if your child is eligible:

  * please check your Medicare online account through myGov
  * [visit Service Australia's website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/child-dental-benefits-schedule)
  * call the Medicare patient helpline on [132 011](tel:132011).

![CDBS – Resources for dental service
providers](/sites/default/files/styles/h_featured_max_width/public/images/collections/2022/04/cdbs-
resources-for-dental-service-providers.jpg?itok=h9_b_BPk)

## CDBS – Resources for dental service providers

This collection contains information for dentists and dental practitioners on
how to become a provider for the Child Dental Benefits Schedule (CDBS),
requirements and obligations as a provider, how much it pays, and consent
forms to complete when billing under the CDBS.

[View the collection](/resources/collections/cdbs-resources-for-dental-
service-providers)

We work with state and territory governments to help fund public dental
services and improve the oral health of all Australians. The [National Oral
Health Plan 2015–2024](/node/37566) sets out priorities.

We also:

  * manage the [government funding agreement with states and territories](https://federalfinancialrelations.gov.au/agreements/public-dental-services-adults) to provide more public dental services for adults
  * help to organise [independent reviews of the Dental Benefits Act 2008](/node/37471)
  * regulate and support [dentists and dental practitioners](/node/20630)
  * encourage [healthy eating](/node/4641) to maintain oral health
  * regulate dental devices through the [Therapeutic Good Administration](https://www.tga.gov.au/)
  * contribute to the funding of oral health population research through the 
    * [Australian Institute of Health and Welfare](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/health-conditions-disability-deaths/dental-oral-health/overview)
    * [Australian Research Centre for Population Oral Health](https://www.adelaide.edu.au/arcpoh/).

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![Cover image Guide to the Child Dental Benefits Schedule \(CDBS\) – Version
11 \(January 2023\)](/sites/default/files/2022-12/cdbs-guide-to-the-child-
dental-benefits-schedule.jpg)

### [CDBS – Guide to the Child Dental Benefits Schedule
](/resources/publications/cdbs-guide-to-the-child-dental-benefits-
schedule?language=en)

January 2023

Guideline

This guide is for dentists and explains the arrangements and requirements for
the Child Dental Benefits Schedule (CDBS).

![Cover image Roadmap Implementation Governance Group \(RIGG\) – Meeting
Summary 1 August 2022](/sites/default/files/2022-12/roadmap-implementation-
governance-group-rigg-meeting-summary-1-august-2022.jpg)

### [Roadmap Implementation Governance Group (RIGG) – Meeting Summary 1 August
2022 ](/resources/publications/roadmap-implementation-governance-group-rigg-
meeting-summary-1-august-2022?language=en)

22 December 2022

Meeting minutes

This document summarises the discussion and outcomes of the third Roadmap
Implementation Governance Group (RIGG) meeting held on 1 August 2022.

![Increasing dental and oral health training in rural and remote Australia –
Feasibility Study Final Report](/sites/default/files/2022-12/increasing-
dental-and-oral-health-training-in-rural-and-remote-australia-feasibility-
study-final-report_0.png)

### [Increasing dental and oral health training in rural and remote Australia
– Feasibility study final report ](/resources/publications/increasing-dental-
and-oral-health-training-in-rural-and-remote-australia-feasibility-study-
final-report?language=en)

19 December 2022

Report

This report outlines the feasibility and best approach to increasing dental
and oral health training through the Rural Heath Multidisciplinary Training
Program in rural and remote locations.

![Increasing dental and oral health training in rural and remote Australia –
Feasibility study technical paper](/sites/default/files/2022-12/increasing-
dental-and-oral-health-training-in-rural-and-remote-australia-feasibility-
study-technical-paper.png)

### [Increasing dental and oral health training in rural and remote Australia
– Feasibility study technical paper ](/resources/publications/increasing-
dental-and-oral-health-training-in-rural-and-remote-australia-feasibility-
study-technical-paper?language=en)

19 December 2022

Report

This report outlines the feasibility and best approach to increasing dental
and oral health training through the Rural Heath Multidisciplinary Training
Program in rural and remote locations. This technical paper outlines the
associated costs.

[View more dental health
resources](/resources/publications?f%5B0%5D=h_related_health_topics%3ADental%20health&sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Dental health contact ](/contacts/dental-health-contact?language=en)

Contact us for more information about dental health and the Child Dental
Benefits Schedule. You can call Mondays to Fridays, during regular business
hours, or email at any time.

[DAHM@health.gov.au](mailto:DAHM@health.gov.au)

[02 6289 3800](tel:02 6289 3800)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

