Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Cancer](/topics/cancer)
  4. [About cancer](/topics/cancer/about-cancer)

[About cancer](/topics/cancer/about-cancer)

# What we're doing about cancer

We fund cancer research, run programs to prevent, detect cancer early, treat
cancer and support people through their cancer treatment. We also lead
committees and groups to inform our decisions.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we're doing about cancer&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/cancer/about-cancer/what-were-doing-about-cancer)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/cancer/about-cancer/what-were-doing-about-cancer)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we're doing about cancer&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/cancer/about-cancer/what-were-doing-about-cancer)

Loading...

On this page

## Research and data

We provide funding for cancer research to make sure we have the evidence we
need to make better decisions.

  * [Medical Research Future Fund](/our-work/medical-research-future-fund "Medical Research Future Fund")
  * [National Health and Medical Research Council](/contacts/national-health-and-medical-research-council-nhmrc "National Health and Medical Research Council \(NHMRC\)")
  * [Australian Cancer Trials](/contacts/australian-cancer-trials "Australian Cancer Trials")
  * [Cancer Australia](/contacts/cancer-australia "Cancer Australia")
  * [Australian Institute of Health and Welfare](/contacts/australian-institute-of-health-and-welfare-aihw "Australian Institute of Health and Welfare \(AIHW\)")

## Programs to help detect and prevent cancer

We run free [cancer screening programs](/topics/cancer/screening-for-cancer
"Screening for cancer") to help detect cancer before you have symptoms.

## The National Cancer Screening Register

We established the [National Cancer Screening Register](/our-work/national-
cancer-screening-register "National Cancer Screening Register") to support our
national screening programs for bowel and cervical cancer. The register is
used to:

  * manage participant details, including invitations and reminders to screen
  * collect, store, analyse and report on screening program data.

The comprehensive data helps inform policy, improve program quality and
service delivery.

## Screening framework

[ ![Cover image for Population based screening
framework](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2019/09/population-
based-screening-framework.jpg?itok=vdPETKmM)
](/resources/publications/population-based-screening-framework)

###  [Population-based screening framework
](/resources/publications/population-based-screening-framework?language=en)

This framework sets out the principles of screening programs for cancer and
chronic diseases. It informs decision makers about the key issues to consider
when deciding whether to introduce a screening program.

## Reducing the risk of cancer

The [National Immunisation Program](/our-work/national-immunisation-program
"National Immunisation Program") provides free vaccines to eligible people
against:

  * [HPV](/diseases/human-papillomavirus-hpv "Human papillomavirus \(HPV\)"), which can help prevent cervical cancer, anal cancer and other cancers
  * [hepatitis B](/diseases/hepatitis-b "Hepatitis B"), which can help prevent liver cancer.

We also have strategies to help Australians minimise their cancer risk:

  * [National Tobacco Strategy 2023–2030](National Tobacco Strategy 2023–2030)
  * [National Alcohol Strategy 2019–2028](/resources/publications/national-alcohol-strategy-2019-2028 "National Alcohol Strategy 2019–2028").

## Treating and managing cancer

We work to support people with cancer and improve cancer outcomes by:

  * providing free or cheaper cancer treatment and medicines under [Medicare](/topics/medicare "Medicare") and the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](http://www.pbs.gov.au/)
  * developing national guides to promote best practice cancer care – [Optimal Cancer Care Pathways](https://www.cancer.org.au/about-cancer/cancer-pathways-what-to-expect.html).

## Committees and groups

We chair committees and groups that focus on cancer screening and improving
cancer outcomes.

  * [Standing Committee on Screening](https://webarchive.nla.gov.au/awa/20210121093738/https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/standing-committee-on-screening-scos)
  * [National Cancer Expert Reference Group](/contacts/national-cancer-expert-reference-group-ncerg-secretariat "National Cancer Expert Reference Group \(NCERG\) secretariat")

Last updated:

2 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Alcohol](/topics/alcohol)
  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  * [Smoking and tobacco](/topics/smoking-and-tobacco)
  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

  * [About cancer](/topics/cancer/about-cancer)
    * [What is cancer?](/topics/cancer/about-cancer/what-is-cancer)
    * [Cancer in Australia](/topics/cancer/about-cancer/cancer-in-australia)
    * [Types of cancer](/topics/cancer/about-cancer/types-of-cancer)
    * [Preventing and diagnosing cancer](/topics/cancer/about-cancer/preventing-and-diagnosing-cancer)
    * [Treating and managing cancer](/topics/cancer/about-cancer/treating-and-managing-cancer)
    * [What we're doing about cancer](/topics/cancer/about-cancer/what-were-doing-about-cancer)
  * [Screening for cancer](/topics/cancer/screening-for-cancer)
  * [Guidance for patient screening](/topics/cancer/guidance-for-patient-screening)
  * [News](/topics/cancer/cancer-news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/cancer/cancer-initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/cancer/cancer-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/cancer/cancer-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

