Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# A new patient-centred approach to caring for cancer survivors

Cancer survivors don’t always get the follow-up care they need, according to
specialist cancer nurse Professor Raymond Chan. To fix this, Ray is trialling
a new nurse-led clinic to coordinate shared care between hospitals and GPs. He
hopes shared care will give survivors a better care experience.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=A new patient-centred approach to caring for cancer survivors&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/a-new-patient-centred-approach-to-caring-for-cancer-survivors)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/a-new-patient-centred-approach-to-caring-for-cancer-survivors)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=A new patient-centred approach to caring for cancer survivors&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/a-new-patient-centred-approach-to-caring-for-cancer-survivors)

Loading...

Date published:

31 March 2023

Type:

News

Audience:

General public

![MRFF web tile Professor Raymond
Chan](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-03/a-new-
patient-centred-approach-to-caring-for-cancer-survivors.png?itok=qsoNLfrq)

## Better follow-up care for cancer survivors

Cancer survivors deserve better follow-up care, says specialist cancer nurse
Professor Raymond Chan from Flinders University. The standard way of caring
for cancer survivors after they finish treatment is for hospitals to ask them
to come back to cancer care clinics. But Ray says this follow-up care does not
meet patient needs:

‘The cancer centre is busy. At each appointment the cancer survivor waits for
a long time to see the doctor. Because they finished their treatment, they may
see a junior doctor The doctor checks their blood test results and says the
cancer has not come back. That’s the end of the appointment.

‘Let’s say the hospital treated the patient for prostate cancer. He could be
losing muscle mass and have heart problems, erectile dysfunction and
depression because of his cancer treatment. As he walks out of the clinic he
thinks “no one has cared about my health problems.”

‘The cancer specialists at the hospital don’t have time to treat these
problems. And they are not the right people to give all the care the man
needs,’ Ray explains.

## A multi-disciplinary team approach

Ray says a multi-disciplinary team approach could give better care. ‘GPs and
nurses could deliver some of the follow-up care for cancer survivors. But they
often don’t get enough information on their patients from the cancer centre.
Therefore, they haven’t been empowered to deliver this sort of care.’

Ray’s solution is to create a nurse-led clinic. When a patient finishes their
cancer treatment, they will have an appointment at the clinic with a
specialist cancer nurse. The nurse will create a plan to meet their ongoing
health care needs and coordinate this care between the hospital and their GP.
This process empowers the patient to be in the driver’s seat by partnering
with their health professionals.

## A case conference for each patient

The first step in the care plan is for the specialist cancer nurse to hold a
case conference with the patient’s GP and practice nurse. During the case
conference the cancer nurse will explain the patient’s specialised needs from
their cancer treatment. They will recommend how to care for the patient and
what symptoms the GP should escalate back to the hospital. The case conference
also gives the GP a chance to clarify what care to give and why. The GP can
negotiate which care they can give and what the hospital should give.

## Alternating follow-up appointments

Another aim of the case conference is to arrange for cancer survivors to see
their cancer specialist and their GP in alternating follow-up appointments.
This approach allows the doctors to share responsibility for the survivor’s
follow-up care.

## The shared care trial

Ray is trialling nurse-led shared care for prostate cancer survivors,
supported by $1.63 million from the MRFF.

One group of prostate cancer survivors is receiving shared care and another
group is receiving standard care. Ray is collecting data to see if survivors
who receive shared care have better quality care and a better quality of life.

Ray will also look at data from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme and the
Medicare Benefits Scheme. This will show him which survivors receive more
medicine and health care services.

## Assessing the costs of reform

Health economist Professor Louisa Gordon, from QIMR Berghofer, is in Ray’s
research team. Her role is to analyse the data Ray collects. This allows her
to assess the costs and quality of life benefits of shared care.

‘I will be able to compare the costs and outcomes for survivors receiving
shared care with those for survivors who receive standard care,’ Louisa says.

Louisa uses the measure of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) to compare
outcomes for the two groups. QALYs represent a person’s remaining life in
years adjusted by the quality of that time. Louisa expects patients receiving
shared care will gain more QALYs.

‘Evaluating the extra cost of shared care per QALY gained allows us to compare
this ratio with other Australian healthcare system interventions. This shows
us if it is cost effective and good value for money,’ Louisa says.

## Activating health systems change on a large scale

Ray is leading similar trials for other types of cancer, including another
MRFF funded trial for patients with neuroendocrine tumours. Funding for all
these trials adds up to more than $10 million. Ray hopes the cumulative effect
of the trials will activate health system change on a large scale.

‘My hope is that after a few years, enough GPs participate in the shared care
model whereby it will become the norm for them. They will see the hospitals
communicating enough so they know what to do.’

Ray also hopes evidence from the trials will lead to policy change. ‘Then you
are influencing the system at a larger level than just one GP practice at a
time. This is my career vision and I hope I can achieve it in ten years so I
can move on to other dreams.’

Tags:

  * [Health data and medical research](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research)
  * [MRFF projects](/our-work/mrff-projects)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

