Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care)

# About allied health care

Allied health includes a broad range of health professionals who can treat
conditions and illnesses. Learn more about what allied health care is, where
you can access it and how much it costs.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About allied health care&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/allied-health/about)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/allied-health/about)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About allied health care&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/allied-health/about)

Loading...

On this page

## What allied health care is

Allied health care is provided by trained professionals with university
qualifications. They use practices with good evidence of effectiveness to
prevent, diagnose and treat various conditions and illnesses.

They often work in teams with various other healthcare workers to provide
specialised support to patients.

There is no one definition of allied health. Different definitions are used
internationally and across Australia.

Generally, the Australian Government recognises allied health professions that
have all the below:

  * a university qualification accredited by a relevant national accreditation body
  * a national professional organisation with clearly defined membership criteria
  * clear national entry-level competency standards and assessment processes
  * autonomy of practice
  * a clearly defined scope of practice.

## Types of allied health care

Some of the larger allied health professions are:

  * physiotherapy
  * psychology
  * pharmacy
  * occupational therapy
  * social work 

Learn more by seeing our allied health care work statistics.

## Where to access allied health care

You can see allied health professionals without a referral from a doctor, such
as when you see them as part of a primary care service.

Allied health professionals work in a variety of settings, including:

  * hospitals 
  * private practice
  * residential aged care facilities
  * community care
  * schools
  * disability services.

## Costs of allied health care

Allied health services are funded in different ways. You need to pay a fee for
many services, but some are eligible for subsidies and other funding.

Subsidised services include treatment:

  * for [chronic or terminal conditions](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/content/health-medicare-allied-health-brochure.htm) that get a Medicare rebate for a limited number of sessions
  * in [public hospitals](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/health-care-and-medicare?context=60092#hospital) and community health centres
  * covered through [private health insurance rebates](/topics/private-health-insurance/about-private-health-insurance "About private health insurance")
  * provided through [Primary Health Networks](/our-work/phn/what-PHNs-are "What Primary Health Networks are")
  * for people who have a [Department of Veterans’ Affairs](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/injury-or-health-treatments/health-services/allied-health-treatment-cycle) (DVA) card
  * for [National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) participants](https://www.ndis.gov.au/understanding/supports-funded-ndis)
  * covered by third party-compensation (for example, [Transport Accident Commission](https://www.tac.vic.gov.au/clients/how-we-can-help/treatments-and-services/policies/allied-health-and-physical-therapies) and WorkCover).

Ask your provider about fees before you make your appointment.

## Allied health workforce statistics

There are around 200,000 registered allied health professionals in Australia.
Allied health is a rapidly growing part of Australia’s health workforce.

Learn more from our [workforce fact sheets on allied health
professionals](https://hwd.health.gov.au/resources/publications/factsheet-
alld-2019.html).

Yearly workforce growth in allied health professions from 2016-2021

[ ![Chart showing yearly workforce growth in allied health professions from
2016 to
2021](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-01/yearly_workforce_growth_in_allied_health_professions_from_2016_to_2021.png?itok=_HOoxaAo)
](/sites/default/files/2023-01/yearly_workforce_growth_in_allied_health_professions_from_2016_to_2021.png)

Show description of image

The annual compound growth rate for each profession from 2016-2021 is:

  * Pharmacists 2.5%
  * Chiropractors 2.9%
  * Optometrists 4.1%
  * Podiatrists 4.1%
  * Psychologists 4.5%
  * Physiotherapists 5.6%
  * Occupational Therapists 7.2%
  * Osteopaths 7.3%

Despite this growth, there is a national shortage of some allied health
professions.​​​​​​

### Workforce growth

The fastest-growing fields are occupational therapy, osteopathy and
physiotherapy.

We expect demand for allied health professionals to grow further over the next
decade, as Australia’s population changes.

This is especially true for rural and remote Australia, as allied health
professionals are concentrated around major urban areas.

Geographic distribution of selected allied health professionals across
Australia

[ ![Geographic distribution of selected allied health professionals across
Australia
\(2021\)](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-01/geographic_distribution_of_selected_allied_health_professionals_across_australia_2021.png?itok=i8rZMV4N)
](/sites/default/files/2023-01/geographic_distribution_of_selected_allied_health_professionals_across_australia_2021.png)

Show description of image

The geographic distribution of selected allied health professions in 2021 (by
full time equivalent rate per 100,000 population) across Australia is:

Physiotherapists  
MM1 – 130  
MM2 – 97  
MM3 – 83  
MM4 – 97  
MM5 – 30  
MM6 – 62  
MM7 – 57

Psychologists  
MM1 – 121  
MM2 – 87  
MM3 – 52  
MM4 – 81  
MM5 – 26  
MM6 – 46  
MM7 – 21

Occupational therapists  
MM1 – 88  
MM2 – 84  
MM3 – 54  
MM4 – 82  
MM5 – 23  
MM6 – 50  
MM7 – 30

Optometrists  
MM1 – 21  
MM2 – 18  
MM3 – 19  
MM4 – 24  
MM5 – 4  
MM6 – 11  
MM7 – 5

The chart classifies locations by Modified Monash Model zones (1=metropolitan
area, 7=very remote communities). The zones are:

  1. Metropolitan area
  2. Regional centres
  3. Large rural towns
  4. Medium rural towns
  5. Small rural towns
  6. Remote communities
  7. Very remote communities.

Last updated:

13 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care)

  * [About allied health care](/topics/allied-health/about)
  * [Who can provide allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care/who-can-provide)
  * [How allied health helps people](/topics/allied-health/how-it-helps)
  * [What we're doing about allied health](/topics/allied-health/what-we-do)
  * [News](/topics/allied-health-care/allied-health-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/allied-health/allied-health-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/allied-health/allied-health-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

