Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# National Cabinet Statement on a better future for the federation

See the below statement, released following the conclusion of National Cabinet
on Friday 28 April 2023.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=National Cabinet Statement on a better future for the federation&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/national-cabinet-statement-on-a-better-future-for-the-federation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/national-cabinet-statement-on-a-better-future-for-the-federation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=National Cabinet Statement on a better future for the federation&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/national-cabinet-statement-on-a-better-future-for-the-federation)

Loading...

Date published:

28 April 2023

Media type:

Statement

Audience:

General public

National Cabinet met in Brisbane today to agree a national approach to a range
of priorities for Australians, including making healthcare more accessible and
affordable and better planning to ensure communities thrive as they grow.

A Better Future for the Federation takes as its starting point that Australia
can be more than the sum of its parts. That by co-operating more closely on
everything from planning and housing to skills and services we can generate a
multiplier effect for productivity gains and economic growth.

First Ministers had constructive and positive discussions on key national
priorities including health, the National Disability Insurance Scheme, the
transition to net zero and strengthening national renters’ rights.

First Ministers agreed the federation should be a driver for practical and
meaningful reform, not a barrier.

## Health

First Ministers reaffirmed their commitment to health as the priority for
National Cabinet in 2023. To guide this, National Cabinet articulated their
shared vision for _‘a patient-centred and sustainable Australian healthcare
system that delivers the best outcome for our community’_.

To support this, a range of tangible _Strengthening Medicare_ measures that
will make health care more accessible and affordable were agreed, including:

  1. Supporting workforces to work at top of scope, including pharmacists, paramedics.
  2. Expanding the nursing workforce to improve access to primary care.
  3. Improving access to and delivery of after-hours primary care.
  4. Introducing MyMedicare (patient ID) to support wrap around care for patients registered with their local GP through new blended payment models.
  5. Providing flexible funding for multi-disciplinary team-based models to improve quality of care.
  6. Investing in digital health to improve health outcomes.

This $2.2 billion package of measures will address immediate challenges in
primary care, take pressure off the hospital system, and lay the foundations
for long term Medicare reform.

First Ministers also endorsed the Independent Review of Overseas Health
Practitioner Regulatory Settings Interim Report, led by Ms Robyn Kruk AO. The
Interim Report recommends measures to immediately boost the health workforce
and ensure Australia is a competitive destination for the global health
workforce into the future, while maintaining high standards of quality and
safety.

National Cabinet tasked Health Ministers to progress recommendations and
report back to National Cabinet as a priority. The Interim Report will be
released on federation.gov.au.

First Ministers agreed to a dedicated National Cabinet meeting on health
reform in the second half of 2023.

## National Disability Insurance Scheme

First Ministers committed to an _NDIS Financial Sustainability Framework_ to
ensure the NDIS can continue to provide life-changing outcomes for future
generations of Australians with disability.

Noted that the Commonwealth is working with the NDIA Board to take immediate
action to ensure a sustainable Scheme, and is committing more than $720
million in the 2023-24 Budget to lift NDIA’s capability, capacity and systems
to better support participants.

The Framework is the next step, and will provide an annual growth target in
the total costs of the Scheme of no more than 8 per cent by 1 July 2026, with
further moderation of growth as the scheme matures.

Governments share the goal of reaching long term sustainability for the Scheme
and have elevated this objective to National Cabinet. A sustainable growth
trajectory for the NDIS will support equity and fairness for all Australians
living with disability, including for those not eligible for the NDIS, and
ensure that every dollar goes to those who need it most.

## Better Planning for Stronger Growth

First Ministers agreed to a range of meaningful reforms to support a national
approach to the growth of our cities, towns and suburbs, including:

  * Housing Ministers will develop a proposal for National Cabinet in the second half of 2023 outlining reforms to strengthen renters’ rights across the country.
  * As part of the new national Migration Strategy, the Commonwealth will ensure states and territories have a greater contribution to Australia’s migration settings, to ensure migration meets the local needs of communities across the country.
  * The Commonwealth is commencing an independent review of its Infrastructure Investment Program and adopting a refreshed approach to infrastructure investment. States and territories have agreed to support the review.
  * States and territories will also work with the Commonwealth to support a more sustainable infrastructure pipeline, in the short term, at around $120 billion over 10 years that provides certainty to the market and delivers the highest priority projects for growing communities.
  * Within the next six months, Planning Ministers will develop a proposal for National Cabinet outlining reforms to increase housing supply and affordability, working with the Australian Local Government Association.
  * The Commonwealth will also reinstate a vision to ensure growth in cities is sustainable in partnership with state and territory governments via the National Urban Policy.

In addition, the Commonwealth is also making new investments to promote better
growth, including:

  * Supporting a better migration system through increased visa processing capacity, expanding pathways to permanent residence for temporary skilled sponsored workers and taking steps to address migrant exploitation.
  * Continued investment to enable a pipeline of new social and affordable dwellings, including delivering the Housing Australia Future Fund and expanding the capacity of the Affordable Housing Bond Aggregator by expanding the liability cap by $2 billion.
  * Offering incentives to increase the supply of housing by: 
    * increasing the depreciation rate from 2.5 per cent to 4 per cent per year for eligible new build-to-rent projects where construction commences after 9 May 2023; and
    * reducing the withholding tax rate for eligible fund payments from managed investment trusts to foreign residents on income from newly constructed residential build-to-rent properties after 1 July 2024 from 30 to 15 per cent, subject to further consultation on eligibility criteria.

## National Skills Agreement

First Ministers continue to work collaboratively on long-term skills reform
and agreed that Skills Ministers will finalise a new five year National Skills
Agreement, informed by the vision and guiding principles endorsed by National
Cabinet. The National Skills Agreement will ensure that high-quality,
accessible education and training will be available to equip Australians with
skills and prepare them for the jobs of now and the future.

## Net Zero Transformation

National Cabinet discussed how to best support regions that are exposed to
socio-economic changes associated with decarbonisation.

The Prime Minister also provided an update on roles and responsibilities
across Australian governments for the implementation of the National
Transformation Principles, agreed by National Cabinet in 2022. These reflect a
shared commitment to capture the benefits of the energy transformation and
support regions transitioning to decarbonisation.

## Care and Support Economy

National Cabinet discussed the development of a national strategy for the care
and support economy. First Ministers agreed to work together to progress a
first tranche of reforms to streamline worker screening, improve worker
safety, and grow the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander care and support
workforce. The strategy will set the vision for a sustainable and productive
care and support economy that delivers quality care and support with decent
jobs.

## Referendum on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Recognition

National Cabinet reaffirmed its Statement of Intent in February, of the
unanimous support of State and Territory Leaders for constitutional
recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and listening to
them to achieve practical outcomes to close the gap.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### Departmental media enquiries

Contact for members of the media

[news@health.gov.au](mailto:news@health.gov.au?subject=Media enquiry - News
item ID 3086&body=URL - https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.au%2Fnews%2Fnational-
cabinet-statement-on-a-better-future-for-the-federation)

[02 6289 7400](tel:02 6289 7400)

[View contact](/contacts/departmental-media-enquiries)

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)
  * [Strengthening Medicare Taskforce](/committees-and-groups/strengthening-medicare-taskforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

