Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [Senator the Hon Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)
  3. [Minister McCarthy's media](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy/media)

[Minister McCarthy's media](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-
mccarthy/media)

# Strengthening GP care for Indigenous Australians

Medical clinics have been encouraged to provide better, ongoing care to
Indigenous Australians following the revamp of an incentive program designed
to achieve better, long-term health outcomes.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Strengthening GP care for Indigenous Australians&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy/media/strengthening-gp-care-for-indigenous-australians)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy/media/strengthening-gp-care-for-indigenous-australians)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Strengthening GP care for Indigenous Australians&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy/media/strengthening-gp-care-for-indigenous-australians)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-
mccarthy_0.jpg?itok=9IvzmuBp)

**Senator the Hon Malarndirri McCarthy**  
Assistant Minister for Indigenous Health

Media event date:

27 February 2023

Date published:

27 February 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

Medical clinics have been encouraged to provide better, ongoing care to
Indigenous Australians following the revamp of an incentive program designed
to achieve better, long-term health outcomes.

The Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Initiative (PIP-IHI) has
been updated and improved and will boost quality of care and outcomes for
Indigenous people living with chronic health and mental health conditions.

The PIP-IHI pays medical practices to sign up to the program when a patient is
registered and when certain patient outcomes are reached.

A 2019 review of the initiative found that while many practices signed on and
registered patients, there were low numbers of payments based on outcomes.
This showed the program wasn’t doing what it was designed for – achieving
continuity of care for patients with high needs.

To remedy these shortcomings and ensure efficiency, changes to the PIP-IHI
include:

  * making some GP Mental Health Care Plan Medicare items eligible for outcome payments
  * shifting payment amounts to incentivise follow up care for patients, rather than registration
  * making patients under the age of 15 eligible for outcome payments
  * giving GP practices a 12-month rolling window to provide the required number of services.

Initial changes began in the new year, with the updated payment structure
transitioning in 2023 and 2024 to give practices time to adjust to the
changes.

**Quotes attributable to Senator Malarndirri McCarthy:**

“Ensuring patients get high quality, continuous and comprehensive care with
their GP is a proven way we can close the gap.

“We are strengthening Medicare and improving the incentives for general
practices, Aboriginal Medical Services and Aboriginal Community Controlled
Health Services to work closely with chronically ill patients and achieve
better results for them, their families and their communities.

“Chronic disease takes a devastating – and increasing – toll on Indigenous
communities in every corner of this country.

“Rates of chronic disease have increased from 40% of Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people in 2012-13, to 46% in 2018-19.”

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)

Related ministers:

  * [Senator the Hon Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

