Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Jail time for Pharmacist and Practice Manager

A Pharmacist and Practice Manager from across Australia were sentenced last
week after fraudulently claiming more than $470,000 in payments under the
Medicare Benefits Scheme (MBS) and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS).

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Jail time for Pharmacist and Practice Manager&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/jail-time-for-pharmacist-and-practice-manager)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/jail-time-for-pharmacist-and-practice-manager)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Jail time for Pharmacist and Practice Manager&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/jail-time-for-pharmacist-and-practice-manager)

Loading...

Date published:

7 February 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

A Pharmacist and Practice Manager from across Australia were sentenced last
week after fraudulently claiming more than $470,000 in payments under the
Medicare Benefits Scheme (MBS) and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS).

The below outcomes are a culmination of a strong collaboration between the
Department of Health and Aged Care and the Commonwealth Director of Public
Prosecutions (CDPP).

**Victoria – 2 February 2023 – Carson Au**

Victorian pharmacy practitioner Carson Au was sentenced to two years
imprisonment after having made 76 false PBS claims between 25 February 2018
and 20 September 2019.

Au received PBS payments in the amount of $110,461.68 to which he was not
entitled.

He was sentenced to two years imprisonment commencing on the 2 February 2023
and will serve eight months in custody before being released on a $5,000 Good
Behaviour Bond of two years.

All monies owed by Mr Au have been repaid.

**New South Wales – 3 February 2023 – Amanda Leigh Blackburn**

Former practice manager Amanda Blackburn of St Clair was sentenced to a
maximum of four years imprisonment with a minimum two years to be served by
the Parramatta District Court after pleading guilty to defrauding taxpayers of
almost $315,000 by lodging false MBS claims.

Ms Blackburn was found to have made 3,915 false or misleading MBS claims for
6,897 services between 26 March 2014 and 1 February 2021 that were not
actually provided to patients.

A Restitution Order was issued by the Court for $314,253.60

The Department of Health and Aged Care takes allegations of Medicare non-
compliance very seriously and all tip-offs are reviewed.

Anyone with information about suspected non-compliance or fraud of Government
health payments by health providers can make a report via the “Reporting
Fraud” page on the Department of Health’s website at [www.health.gov.au/fraud-
tip-offs](http://www.health.gov.au/fraud-tip-offs) or by calling the Provider
Benefits Integrity Hotline on 1800 314 808.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### Departmental media enquiries

Contact for members of the media

[news@health.gov.au](mailto:news@health.gov.au?subject=Media enquiry - News
item ID 3086&body=URL - https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.au%2Fnews%2Fjail-time-
for-pharmacist-and-practice-manager)

[02 6289 7400](tel:02 6289 7400)

[View contact](/contacts/departmental-media-enquiries)

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

