Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# The new COVID-19 and Influenza Immunisation History Statement

From 15 April 2023, you can use the new COVID-19 and Influenza Immunisation
History Statement from the Australian Immunisation Register.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=The new COVID-19 and Influenza Immunisation History Statement&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/the-new-covid-19-and-influenza-immunisation-history-statement)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/the-new-covid-19-and-influenza-immunisation-history-statement)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=The new COVID-19 and Influenza Immunisation History Statement&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/the-new-covid-19-and-influenza-immunisation-history-statement)

Loading...

Date published:

20 April 2023

Type:

News

Audience:

Health sector

You can now use the new COVID-19 and Influenza Immunisation History Statement
(IHS) from the [Australian Immunisation
Register](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-
professionals/using-the-australian-immunisation-register "Using the Australian
Immunisation Register") (AIR).

The AIR is a national immunisation register that records vaccines given to all
people in Australia. This includes COVID-19 vaccines, vaccines given under the
National Immunisation Program (NIP), and vaccines given privately, such as for
seasonal influenza or travel.

The new IHS only displays COVID-19 and influenza vaccination information
(including medical contraindications) on the AIR for an individual. You can
use it as evidence for employment purposes, instead of providing your full
vaccination history. This helps to protect your privacy as you can choose not
to disclose information about other vaccinations that you may have received.

See the example of the new IHS:

![Screen capture example of the Immunisation History
Statement](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-04/screen_capture_example_of_the_immunisation_history_statement.png?itok=fpzJx2ai)

For more information on how you can get your IHS, please visit [Check
immunisation history ](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated/check-
immunisation-history#air-immunisation-history-statements "Check immunisation
history")

## More information

Learn more about [what personal information is collected in the AIR](/using-
our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-
immunisation-register "Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register
") and how this information is used and disclosed.

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-default-icon.png)

###  [ Australian Immunisation Register contact ](/contacts/australian-
immunisation-register-contact?language=en)

The Australian Immunisation Register (AIR) is a national register that records
vaccines given to people of all ages in Australia. You can request an
immunisation history statement for your child.

[air@servicesaustralia.gov.au](mailto:air@servicesaustralia.gov.au)

Australian Immunisation Register enquiries

[1800 653 809](tel:1800 653 809)

[Australian Immunisation
Register](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register)

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

