Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)

[Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)

# Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review Advisory Committee (MRAC)

The Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review Advisory Committee (MRAC) supports
the MBS Continuous Review to ensure the MBS is contemporary, sustainable,
evidence based, and supports universal access to high value care for all
Australians.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\) Review Advisory Committee \(MRAC\)&url=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare Benefits Schedule \(MBS\) Review Advisory Committee \(MRAC\)&body=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac)

Loading...

On this page

## Role

The MRAC is an independent, clinician and consumer-led committee established
to advise Government, as part of the [MBS Continuous Review](/our-
work/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-continuous-review "Medicare Benefits
Schedule \(MBS\) Continuous Review"), on publicly funded services listed on
the MBS.

Find out more about the MRAC review process and how to submit a review
request.

[ ![Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Advisory
Committee](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2022/06/medicare-
benefits-schedule-review-advisory-committee-terms-of-
reference.png?itok=cqDBbKpU) ](/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-
schedule-review-advisory-committee-terms-of-reference)

###  [Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Advisory Committee – Terms of
reference ](/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-schedule-review-
advisory-committee-terms-of-reference?language=en)

This document contains the terms of reference for the Medicare Benefits
Schedule (MBS) Review Advisory Committee (MRAC)

## Members

The MRAC is comprised of practising clinicians, academics, health system
experts and consumers.

Member

|

Speciality  
  
---|---  
  
Conjoint Professor Anne Duggan (Chair)

|

Policy and Clinical Adviser / Gastroenterology  
  
Ms Jo Watson (Deputy Chair)

|

Consumer Representative  
  
Dr Jason Agostino

|

General Practice / Epidemiology / Indigenous Health  
  
Dr Matt Andrews

|

Radiology  
  
Professor John Atherton

|

Cardiology  
  
Professor Wendy Brown

|

General Surgeon – Upper Gastrointestinal and Bariatric Surgery  
  
Professor Adam Elshaug

|

Health Services / Systems Research  
  
Ms Margaret Foulds

|

Psychology  
  
Associate Professor Sally Green

|

Health Services / Systems Research  
  
Dr Chris Helms

|

Nurse Practitioner  
  
Professor Harriet Hiscock

|

Paediatrics  
  
Professor Anthony Lawler

|

Health Services Administration / Emergency Medicine  
  
Ms Alison Marcus

|

Consumer Representative  
  
Associate Professor Elizabeth Marles

|

General Practice / Indigenous Health  
  
Dr Sue Masel

|

Rural General Practice  
  
Professor Christobel Saunders

|

General Surgeon – Breast Cancer and Reconstructive Surgery  
  
Associate Professor Ken Sikaris

|

Pathology  
  
Ms Robyn Stephen

|

Paediatric Speech Pathology  
  
Associate Professor Angus Turner

|

Ophthalmology / Rural and Remote Medicine  
  
Professor Christopher Vertullo

|

Orthopaedic Surgery  
  
Departmental Adviser  
Associate Professor Andrew Singer | Principal Medical Adviser, Department of
Health and Aged Care  
  
To learn more about the members of the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review
Advisory Committee (MRAC), see our [member biographies](/node/39426).

[ ![Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Advisory Committee – Members
biographies](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2022/06/medicare-
benefits-schedule-review-advisory-committee-member-
biographies.png?itok=xd20vX4j) ](/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-
schedule-review-advisory-committee-member-biographies)

###  [Medicare Benefits Schedule Review Advisory Committee – Member
biographies ](/resources/publications/medicare-benefits-schedule-review-
advisory-committee-member-biographies?language=en)

This document contains the member biographies of the Medicare Benefits
Schedule (MBS) Review Advisory Committee (MRAC).

## Current reviews

The MRAC has commenced the following reviews:

  * a post-implementation review of telehealth MBS items
  * a post-implementation review of changes to colonoscopy MBS items as recommended by the MBS Review Taskforce
  * a post-implementation review of changes to electrocardiogram MBS items as recommended by the MBS Review Taskforce
  * a review of vascular interventional radiology MBS items.

In conducting its reviews, the MRAC will:

  * engage with stakeholders and subject matter experts
  * prepare draft reports for consultation
  * submit final reports to the Minister for Health and Aged Care for consideration.

Review | Progress  
---|---  
  
Colonoscopy post implementation review

|

Working Group established as an outcome of the 5 August 2022 MRAC meeting.  
  
First working group meeting held February 2023.  
  
Second and third working group meetings scheduled for March and April 2023.  
  
Vascular interventional radiology services

|

Working Group established as an outcome of the 5 August 2022 MRAC meeting.  
  
First meeting of the working group scheduled for March 2023.  
  
Electrocardiogram (ECG) post implementation review

|

ECG Working Group established as an outcome of the 1 March 2023 MRAC meeting.  
  
Telehealth post implementation review

|

Review formally commenced 1 March 2023, as directed by the Minister for Health
and Aged Care.  
  
## Completed reviews

Review | Progress  
---|---  
  
Introduction of MBS items for genetic counselling services and genetic test
requesting rights for HGSA registered genetic counsellors.

|

Genetic Counselling Working Group established as an outcome of the 1 February
2022 MRAC meeting.  
  
Targeted Consultation of Genetic Counselling Working Group findings closed COB
15 July 2022.  
  
Draft recommendations endorsed by the MRAC, 5 August 2022.  
  
Six-week public consultation of Genetic Counselling Working Group Draft Final
Report closed 7 October 2022.  
  
The MRAC endorsed the Genetic Counselling Working Group Draft Final Report at
its 6 December 2022 meeting.  
  
Final report provided to Government for consideration and will be published on
the MRAC webpage.  
  
Surgical assistant billing arrangements and the eligibility of non-medical
surgical assistants for remuneration via the MBS

|

Surgical Assistant Working Group was established as an outcome of the 1
February 2022 MRAC meeting.  
  
Draft recommendations endorsed by the MRAC, 5 August 2022.  
  
Six-week public consultation of the Surgical Assistant Working Group Draft
Final Report closed 7 October 2022.  
  
The MRAC endorsed the Surgical Assistant Working Group Final Report at its 6
December 2022 meeting.  
  
Final report provided to Government for consideration and will be published on
the MRAC webpage.  
  
Download endorsed Final Reports from [completed reviews](/committees-and-
groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-
mrac/completed-reviews-under-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee "Completed
reviews under the MBS Review Advisory Committee").

Read more about [what happens when a review is completed](/committees-and-
groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/what-
happens-after-reviews-by-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee-are-completed "What
happens after reviews by the MBS Review Advisory Committee are completed").

## Meetings

The inaugural meeting of the MRAC was held on 9 November 2021. MRAC meets 4
times a year.

The next meeting is scheduled for 10 May 2023.

## Communiques

Each quarterly communique contains updates from the MRAC including:

  * meeting outcomes
  * progress on current reviews
  * advice about upcoming reviews.

![MBS Review Advisory Committee \(MRAC\) –
Communiques](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2023-01/mbs-
review-advisory-committee-mrac-communiques.jpg?itok=YUABkixm)

###  [MBS Review Advisory Committee (MRAC) – Communiques
](/resources/collections/mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac-
communiques?language=en)

This collection contains communiques documenting the meetings of the Medicare
Benefits Schedule (MBS) Review Advisory Committee (MRAC).

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ MBS Continuous Review contact ](/contacts/mbs-continuous-review-
contact?language=en)

Contact us with questions about the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)
Continuous Review.

[MBSContinuousReview@health.gov.au](mailto:MBSContinuousReview@health.gov.au)

[Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Continuous
Review](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/medicare-benefits-
schedule-mbs-continuous-review)

Last updated:

4 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

## In this section

##  [MBS Review Advisory Committee](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-
schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac)

  * [Request a review](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/request-a-review-under-the-mbs-continuous-review)
  * [Completed reviews](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/completed-reviews-under-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee)
  * [What happens after reviews are completed](/committees-and-groups/medicare-benefits-schedule-mbs-review-advisory-committee-mrac/what-happens-after-reviews-by-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee-are-completed)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

