Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  4. [Primary care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)

[Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-
care)

# Evaluating our Indigenous health programs

We regularly evaluate our health programs to check whether they are meeting
their goals. This helps us refine our programs so they continue to improve
health outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Evaluating our Indigenous health programs&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/evaluations)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/evaluations)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Evaluating our Indigenous health programs&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/evaluations)

Loading...

On this page

## IAHP primary health care system evaluation

We are evaluating our investments in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
primary health care through the[ Indigenous Australians’ Health
Programme](/our-work/indigenous-australians-health-programme "Indigenous
Australians' Health Programme ") (IAHP).

We expect the evaluation to speed up progress towards [Closing the
Gap](https://www.closingthegap.gov.au/) in health inequality between
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples and non-Indigenous Australians.

### Indigenous primary health care systems evaluation

We engaged Allen + Clarke Policy and regulatory specialists to:

  * assess how appropriate and effective primary health care services for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people are
  * inform us as we refine primary health care under the IAHP.

For full details, see the [evaluation website](https://www.iahpyarnes.com/).
You can also email the consultants to [subscribe to their regular
updates](mailto:iphceval@allenandclarke.com.au?subject=Subscribe%20to%20updates%20on%20Aboriginal%20and%20Torres%20Strait%20Islander%20Primary%20Health%20Care%20Systems%20Evaluation).

#### Purpose

The evaluation aims to improve the health and wellbeing of Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people by:

  * helping the health system respond better to their needs
  * improving the IAHP and how it works with the broader health system
  * helping different levels of the health system (local, regional, state and national) learn from each other and work together
  * getting stakeholders and evaluators together , so they can co-create the evaluation process and actively participate in the evaluation itself.

#### Phases

Allen + Clarke has been working with the Indigenous health sector to co-design
the evaluation.

An initial co-design phase was completed in mid-2018 with a [monitoring and
evaluation design report](https://www.iahpyarnes.com/wp-
content/uploads/2018/12/ME-Design-Report.pdf).

The implementation phase runs until 2022-23. Collaboration with the Indigenous
health sector continues throughout implementation through:

  * a [Health Sector Co-design Group](http://www.allenandclarke.co.nz/phc/health-sector-co-design-group/) made up of key stakeholders, which meets twice a year
  * site partners for the evaluation, which includes Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services and Primary Health Networks (PHN)
  * Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Partnership Forums.

#### Site partners

A central part of the evaluation design has been establishing sites partners
which will:

  * allow Allen + Clarke to assess the impact of the IAHP on the ground
  * provide a national picture of what Australian Government investment is achieving.

Spanning urban, regional and rural Australia, up to 17 sites will participate
in the evaluation. Sites were chosen in consultation with stakeholders.
Stakeholders include the [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health
Partnership
Forums](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health-partnership-forums-updates) in each state and
territory.

A site is an area within a boundary recommended by the forums in each state
and territory. Sites include local Aboriginal Community Controlled Health
Services (ACCHSs), PHNs, communities and all relevant stakeholders.

## Tackling Indigenous Smoking evaluation

Our [Tackling Indigenous Smoking (TIS)](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-
and-programs/tackling-indigenous-smoking) program aims to reduce tobacco use
among Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples.

Monitoring and evaluation for the TIS program involves:

  * local evaluation of activities and project outcomes – done by participating organisations
  * national evaluation of all the components of the TIS program – done by organisations that we commission.

The [national evaluation
report](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/tackling-indigenous-
smoking-program-final-evaluation-report) for 2015 to 2018 is available.

The Australian National University is conducting an impact and outcomes
assessment. The assessment will identify what impact locally-tailored
population health activities have on smoking rates and related indicators for
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

This quantitative evaluation includes the analysis and reporting of relevant
data from:

  * the [Mayi Kuwayu study](https://mkstudy.com.au/): national study of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander wellbeing
  * the [Australian Bureau of Statistics](https://www.abs.gov.au/)
  * the [National Perinatal Data Collection](https://www.aihw.gov.au/about-our-data/our-data-collections/national-perinatal-data-collection)
  * continuous quality improvement measures from ACCHSs
  * other datasets that include the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.

See more on [TIS monitoring and
evaluation](https://tacklingsmoking.org.au/monitoring-and-evaluation/).

Last updated:

8 July 2021

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Indigenous Australians' Health Programme ](/our-work/indigenous-australians-health-programme)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-
torres-strait-islander-health)

  * [Status and determinants of health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/status-and-determinants)
  * [How we support health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/how-we-support-health)
  * [Who we work with](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/who-we-work-with-to-support-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)
    * [Annual health checks](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks)
    * [Ear health and hearing support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-health-and-hearing-support)
    * [Eye health and vision support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)
    * [Chronic disease support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support)
    * [Medicare and medicines](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/medicare-and-medicines)
    * [Evaluations](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/evaluations)
  * [Lifestyle and family health support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support)
  * [Aged care support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/aged-care-support)
  * [Reporting](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)
  * [Research](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/research)
  * [News](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

