Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About us](/about-us)
  3. [Who we are](/about-us/who-we-are)

[Who we are](/about-us/who-we-are)

# Our portfolio

The Health and Aged Care portfolio includes agencies and statutory office
holders. These agencies help us deliver the Australian Government’s health
policies and programs.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Our portfolio&url=https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/who-we-are/our-portfolio)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/who-we-are/our-portfolio)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Our portfolio&body=https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/who-we-are/our-portfolio)

Loading...

On this page

The Department of Health and Aged Care pursues the achievement of the
portfolio outcomes in association with a number of other agencies and
statutory office holders in the portfolio.

## Portfolio agencies

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission ](/contacts/aged-care-quality-
and-safety-commission?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission (ACQSC) protects and enhances the
safety, health, wellbeing and quality of life of people receiving aged care.

[1800 951 822](tel:1800 951 822)

  * [ ![Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2023-05/australian-commission-on-safety-and-quality-in-health-care-acsqhc.png?itok=iPa-OcB-) ](/contacts/australian-commission-on-safety-and-quality-in-health-care-acsqhc)

### [Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care (ACSQHC)
](/contacts/australian-commission-on-safety-and-quality-in-health-care-
acsqhc?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care (ACSQHC) works
in partnership with patients, consumers, clinicians, managers, policy makers
and healthcare organisations to achieve a sustainable, safe and high-quality
health system.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Australian Digital Health Agency ](/contacts/australian-digital-health-
agency?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

Australian Digital Health Agency (ADHA) aims to improve health outcomes for
Australians through the delivery of national digital health services and
systems. They focus on putting data and technology safely to work for
patients, consumers and the healthcare professionals who look after them.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme (AICIS)
](/contacts/australian-industrial-chemicals-introduction-scheme-
aicis?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme (AICIS) helps protect
Australians and the environment by assessing the risks of industrial chemicals
and providing information to promote their safe use.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW) ](/contacts/australian-
institute-of-health-and-welfare-aihw?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW) produces high-quality
reports and other information products, on key health and welfare issues in
Australia. These are used to improve the delivery of health and welfare for
Australians.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Australian Organ and Tissue Authority (OTA) ](/contacts/australian-organ-
and-tissue-authority-ota?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Organ and Tissue Authority (OTA) works with states and territories,
clinicians and the community sector to deliver the Australian Government's
national program to improve organ and tissue donation and transplantation
outcomes in Australia.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA)
](/contacts/australian-radiation-protection-and-nuclear-safety-agency-
arpansa?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA) aims
to protect Australians from radiation exposure, ensure emergency preparedness,
promote effective use of ionising radiation in medicine and ensure appropriate
regulation and enforcement activities.

  * [ ![Australian Sports Commission](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2022-12/australian-sports-commission.jpg?itok=Ny9WOywD) ](/contacts/australian-sports-commission)

### [Australian Sports Commission ](/contacts/australian-sports-
commission?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Australian Sports Commission (ASC) is a Commonwealth entity within the
Australian Government’s Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio.

  * [ ![Australian Sports Foundation logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/australian-sports-foundation-asf.png?itok=hHpvhOOS) ](/contacts/australian-sports-foundation-asf)

### [Australian Sports Foundation (ASF) ](/contacts/australian-sports-
foundation-asf?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Australian Sports Foundation (ASF) aims to help Australians athletes,
organisations and sporting clubs, from the grassroots level through to the
elite, fundraise to achieve their sporting dreams.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Cancer Australia ](/contacts/cancer-australia?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

Cancer Australia (CA) aims to reduce the impact of cancer, improve outcomes
for people affected by cancer and lead and coordinate national, evidence-based
interventions for cancer control and care.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Food Standards Australia New Zealand (FSANZ) ](/contacts/food-standards-
australia-new-zealand-fsanz?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

Food Standards Australia New Zealand (FSANZ) develops standards that regulate
the use of ingredients, processing aids, colourings, additives, vitamins and
minerals, composition of some foods and foods developed by new technologies.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Independent Health and Aged Care Pricing Authority (IHACPA)
](/contacts/independent-health-and-aged-care-pricing-authority-
ihacpa?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Independent Health and Aged Care Pricing Authority (IHACPA) aims to ensure
all Australians have fair access to transparent, sustainable and high-quality
health and aged care.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [National Blood Authority (NBA) contact ](/contacts/national-blood-
authority-nba-contact?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The National Blood Authority (NBA) manages and coordinates arrangements for
the supply of blood, blood products and blood services and their use, on
behalf of the Australian Government and state and territory governments.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC)
](/contacts/national-health-and-medical-research-council-nhmrc?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) funds high quality
health and medical research to build research capability, support researchers,
encourage the translation of research into better health outcomes and promote
the highest ethical standards for health and medical research.

[help@nhmrc.gov.au](mailto:help@nhmrc.gov.au)

[1800 500 983](tel:1800 500 983)

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [National Health Funding Body (NHFB) ](/contacts/national-health-funding-
body-nhfb?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The National Health Funding Body (NHFB) is an independent statutory authority.
They aim to assist the Administrator of the National Health Funding Pool (the
Administrator) in enabling and supporting more transparent and efficient
public hospital funding and reporting.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [National Mental Health Commission (NMHC) ](/contacts/national-mental-
health-commission-nmhc?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The National Mental Health Commission (NMHC) aims to give mental health and
suicide prevention national attention, to influence reform and to help people
live contributing lives by reporting, advising and collaborating.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Office of the Gene Technology Regulator (OGTR) ](/contacts/office-of-the-
gene-technology-regulator-ogtr?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

Office of the Gene Technology Regulator administers the gene technology
regulatory system. The regulator is responsible for protecting the health and
safety of people and the environment by identifying and managing risks posed
by, or as a result of gene technology and Genetically Modified Organisms.

  * ![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### [Professional Services Review (PSR) ](/contacts/professional-services-
review-psr?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

The Professional Services Review (PSR) Agency aims to protect the Australian
public from the risks and costs associated with inappropriate practice within
Medicare and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS).

  * [ ![Sport Integrity Australia logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/sport-integrity-australia_0.png?itok=msuWsbGX) ](/contacts/sport-integrity-australia)

### [Sport Integrity Australia ](/contacts/sport-integrity-
australia?language=en)

Department of Health and Aged Care Portfolio Agency

Sport Integrity Australia brings together the Australian Sports Anti-Doping
Authority (ASADA), the National Integrity of Sport (NISU) and the national
integrity programs of Sport Australia as one entity providing national
coordination and streamlined support to sports.

**Note:** All portfolio agencies are directly financially accountable to
Ministers, Parliament and/or the Australian Securities and Investment
Commission under the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act
2013 ([PGPA Act](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2011C00328)).

## Statutory office holders

There are 8 statutory office holders in the Health and Aged Care portfolio.
They exercise independent statutory functions with administrative support from
the department.

Six operate in the Department:

  * [Aged Care Quality and Safety Commissioner](https://www.agedcarequality.gov.au/)
  * [Aged Care Pricing Commissioner](http://www.acpc.gov.au/internet/acpc/publishing.nsf/content/home)
  * [Gene Technology Regulator](http://www.ogtr.gov.au/)
  * [Therapeutic Goods Administration](https://www.tga.gov.au/)
  * [Office of Drug Control](https://www.odc.gov.au/)
  * [Executive Director of the Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme](https://www.industrialchemicals.gov.au/)
  * [National Rural Health Commissioner](http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
  * Chief Executive Officer of the [National Sports Tribunal](https://www.nationalsportstribunal.gov.au/)

One operates within the [National Health Funding Body](http://nhfb.gov.au/):

  * [Administrator of the National Health Funding Pool](http://www.publichospitalfunding.gov.au/)

One operates within the [National Health and Medical Research
Council](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/):

  * [National Health and Medical Research Council Commissioner of Complaints](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/about-us/resources/commissioner-complaints)

## Regulators

There are 4 Regulators:

  * [Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency](https://www.arpansa.gov.au/)
  * [Office of Gene Technology Regulator](http://www.ogtr.gov.au/)
  * [Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme ](https://www.industrialchemicals.gov.au/)
  * [Therapeutic Goods Administration](https://www.tga.gov.au/)
  * [Office of Drug Control](https://www.odc.gov.au/)

Last updated:

17 January 2023

Tags:

  * [About the department](/topics/about-the-department)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [About us](/about-us)

  * [The Australian health system](/about-us/the-australian-health-system)
  * [What we do](/about-us/what-we-do)
  * [Who we are](/about-us/who-we-are)
    * [Leadership](/about-us/who-we-are/leadership)
    * [Organisational chart](/about-us/who-we-are/organisational-chart)
    * [Portfolio agencies](/about-us/who-we-are/our-portfolio)
    * [Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)
  * [Work with us](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [100 years of Health](/about-us/100-years-of-health)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

