Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Sexual health](/topics/sexual-health)

[Sexual health](/topics/sexual-health)

# What we're doing about sexual health

We coordinate the national response to sexually transmissible infections
(STI), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and cervical cancer through
policies, programs, strategies and information campaigns. We monitor and
respond to outbreaks and subsidise medicines.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we're doing about sexual health&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/sexual-health/what-we-do)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/sexual-health/what-we-do)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we're doing about sexual health&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/sexual-health/what-we-do)

Loading...

On this page

## **Policies and programs**

We develop national policies and programs to improve sexual health and reduce
the incidence and impact of [STI](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/sexually-
transmitted-infections-sti), bloodborne viruses (BBV), and [cervical
cancer](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/cervical-cancer). These include:

  * subsidising the [HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) ](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/Pre-exposure-prophylaxis-PrEP) and antiretroviral medicines to treat HIV through the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home)
  * funding a [human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination program](/topics/immunisation/vaccines/human-papillomavirus-hpv-immunisation-service "HPV \(human papillomavirus\) vaccine") to prevent cervical cancer, which is free to those eligible under the [National Immunisation Program](/our-work/national-immunisation-program "National Immunisation Program")
  * funding the [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program "National Cervical Screening Program"), which provides a free cervical screening test every 5 years to those eligible
  * monitoring [gonorrhoea](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/gonorrhoea-the-clap), [chlamydia](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/chlamydia), donovanosis, [syphilis](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/syphilis) , [HIV](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/hiv-infection-and-aids), [hepatitis B](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/hepatitis-b) and [hepatitis C](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/hepatitis-c) through the [National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cda-surveil-nndss-nndssintro.htm)
  * responding to an ongoing [infectious syphilis outbreak](https://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-infectious-syphilis-outbreak.htm) affecting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples living in northern, central, western and southern Australia
  * funding a national [hepatitis C point-of-care testing program](https://hepcpoct.com.au)
  * funding [hepatitis C education and awareness campaigns](https://www.burnet.edu.au/news/1623_new_funding_for_hepatitis_campaigns)
  * funding the Test Treat And Go (TTANGO) program in remote Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities
  * running campaigns promoting safe sex, such as the [Don’t fool around with syphilis](/dont-fool-around-with-syphilis "Don't fool around with syphilis") campaign
  * providing Medicare support for [telehealth services](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/telehealth "Telehealth") for BBV, sexual or reproductive health services, which allows access to telehealth services without an existing clinical relationship with the provider.

## **Strategies and guidelines**

We develop and implement key strategies and guidelines to improve and manage
sexual health in Australia.

### **National BBV and STI strategies**

We implement the 6 [national BBV and STI
strategies](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-
bbvs-1).

These strategies outline Australia’s priorities to improve health outcomes for
people at risk of, and living with, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, STI and HIV.
They aim to:

  * improve testing, treatment and linkage to care
  * encourage more people to take up harm reduction measures and preventive interventions
  * reduce infections, illness and deaths from these conditions
  * reduce the personal and social impacts these conditions cause
  * support social, behavioural, epidemiological and clinical research in developing a strong evidence base to manage and prevent BBV and STI. 

By setting national priorities, the strategies enable governments,
researchers, health organisations and community organisations to work together
to reduce the impacts of BBV and STI.

### **HIV guidelines**

Our [National Guidelines for Managing HIV Transmission Risk
Behaviours](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-
hiv-guideline-at-risk) provide consistency in the way all Australian states
and territories manage HIV transmission risk behaviours.

They describe a staged, public health approach to managing the small minority
of people living with HIV whose behaviours might result in HIV transmission.

### **Women and men health strategies**

Sexual and reproductive health is a priority area of both the:

  * [National Women’s Health Strategy 2020–2030](/resources/publications/national-womens-health-strategy-2020-2030 "National Women’s Health Strategy 2020–2030")
  * [National Men’s Health Strategy 2020–2030](/resources/publications/national-mens-health-strategy-2020-2030 "National Men’s Health Strategy 2020–2030").

## **Regulation**

The [Therapeutic Goods Administration](https://www.tga.gov.au/sme-
assist/medical-devices-regulation-introduction) assesses all medical devices
before they become available for sale in Australia to make sure they are safe.
This includes condoms and STI detection tests.

## **Research and monitoring**

We fund research into sexual health – including STI and sexual function –
through the:

  * [Medical Research Future Fund](/our-work/medical-research-future-fund "Medical Research Future Fund")
  * [National Health and Medical Research Council](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/).

The [First National Blood Borne Viruses and Sexually Transmissible Infections
Research Strategy
2021–2025](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-
bbvs-1) will ensure future research and innovation align with the national
priorities set out in the national strategies.

The [National BBV and STI Surveillance and Monitoring Plan
2018–2022](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-
bbvs-1) outlines how we monitor progress towards achieving the targets of the
national strategies. Each year, the Kirby Institute [tracks and reports on
their progress](https://kirby.unsw.edu.au/report/tracking-
progress-2020-executive-summaries).

The [Centre of Research Excellence in Sexual and Reproductive Health for Women
in Primary Care](https://www.spherecre.org/about) brings together researchers,
policy makers, women’s health organisations, healthcare professionals and
consumers to improve women’s sexual and reproductive health.

The [Australian Institute of Health and
Welfare](https://www.aihw.gov.au/search?%7B%22SearchText%22:%22sexual%20health%22%7D)
conducts research on the sexual health of men and women.

## **Who we work with**

We work with various stakeholders involved in sexual and reproductive health,
including:

  * [state and territory governments](https://health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/local-state-and-territory-health-departments)
  * the [Centre of Research Excellence in Sexual and Reproductive Health for Women in Primary Care](https://www.spherecre.org/about) (SPHERE)
  * research organisations
  * BBV and STI peak organisations
  * the [Blood Borne Viruses and Sexually Transmissible Infections Standing Committee](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-bbvs-1), which advises and reports on strategic policy, programs, social issues and activities related to HIV, viral hepatitis and STI
  * the [Ministerial Advisory Committee on Blood Borne Viruses and Sexually Transmissible Infections](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp-bbvs-1), which advises on the national response and management of BBVs and STI.

## **Related information**

  * The [STI Management Guidelines](https://sti.guidelines.org.au) provide clinicians with advice on how to recognise, test for and treat various STI.
  * [National testing policies](https://testingportal.ashm.org.au/) provide information to health professionals who are ordering tests and interpreting test results for HIV, hepatitis C and hepatitis B.
  * [World AIDS Day](http://www.worldaidsday.org.au/) – held on 1 December each year – raises awareness about the issues surrounding HIV and AIDS. It is a day for people to show their support for people living with HIV and to commemorate people who have died.
  * [World Hepatitis Day](https://www.worldhepatitisday.org) – held on 28 July each year – raises awareness about hepatitis and promotes testing and prevention for all 5 types of the disease: A, B, C, D and E.
  * The [National Plan to Reduce Violence Against Women and and their Children 2010–2022](https://www.dss.gov.au/women/programs-services/reducing-violence/the-national-plan-to-reduce-violence-against-women-and-their-children-2010-2022) outlines Australia’s approach to reduce family, domestic and sexual violence.

## **Contact**

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Bloodborne viruses and sexually transmissible infections contact
](/contacts/bloodborne-viruses-and-sexually-transmissible-infections-
contact?language=en)

Contact us for enquiries about our work on bloodborne viruses and sexually
transmissible infections.

[BBVSTITSH@health.gov.au](mailto:BBVSTITSH@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

31 May 2022

Tags:

  * [Sexual health](/topics/sexual-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Sexual health](/topics/sexual-health)

  * [About sexual health](/topics/sexual-health/about)
  * [What we're doing](/topics/sexual-health/what-we-do)
  * [News](/topics/sexual-health/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/sexual-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/sexual-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

