Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)

[Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)

# Clinical Implementation Reference Group (CIRG)

The CIRG is an independent group of clinicians who provide advice to the
Australian Government on measures being implemented as part of the Prostheses
List reforms.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Clinical Implementation Reference Group \(CIRG\) &url=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/clinical-implementation-reference-group-cirg)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/clinical-implementation-reference-group-cirg)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Clinical Implementation Reference Group \(CIRG\) &body=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/clinical-implementation-reference-group-cirg)

Loading...

On this page

## Role

The role of the CIRG is to provide clinical advice on the design and
implementation of proposed changes to the Prostheses List as part of the
[Prostheses List reforms](https://health.govcms.gov.au/health-topics/private-
health-insurance/the-prostheses-list/prostheses-list-reforms-and-reviews),
including providing advice on:

  * the regrouping of the Prostheses List
  * the removal of identified general use items from the Prostheses List (mainly listed in the General Miscellaneous Category) with reference to the revised definition and scope
  * a proposed framework for utilisation reviews
  * key features of a compliance framework
  * essential elements for an evaluation framework, including activities and data analysis.

### Terms of reference

For more information refer to the group [Terms of
reference](/resources/publications/terms-of-reference-for-clinical-
implementation-reference-group "Terms of reference for Clinical Implementation
Reference Group").

## Members

Membership of the CIRG comprises of selected Prostheses List Advisory
Committee and Clinical Advisory Group members, clinicians that have previously
participated on Medicare Benefits Schedule review panels and/or nominees from
the Australian Medication Association and craft groups. Members will not be
representing any Associations, Societies or Boards that they are affiliated
with.

**Member**

|

**Speciality**  
  
---|---  
  
Doctor Omar Khorshid (Chair)

|

Orthopaedics  
  
Prof Terry Campbell (Deputy Chair)

|

Cardiology  
  
Doctor Anil Asthana

|

Gastroenterology  
  
Professor Mark Daniell

|

Ophthalmology  
  
Associate Professor Gillian Farrell

|

Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery  
  
Doctor David Gill

|

Orthopaedics  
  
Doctor Michael Johnson

|

Orthopaedics  
  
Doctor Peter Lewis

|

Orthopaedics  
  
Doctor James Moore

|

Colorectal Surgery  
  
Professor Abdullah Omari

|

Vascular Medicine  
  
Associate Professor Julian Rait

|

Ophthalmology  
  
Associate Professor Alex Saxby

|

Otolaryngology  
  
Doctor Michael Ward

|

Cardiology  
  
Professor David Watters

|

General Surgery  
  
Professor David Weinsenfeld

|

Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery  
  
Associate Professor Glen Young

|

Electrophysiology  
  
Doctor Orso Osti

|

Orthopaedic spinal surgeon  
  
## Meetings

The CIRG will meet monthly via videoconference, with additional meetings
taking place if required. The group is established initially until 30 June
2022.

## Outcome notes

![Clinical Implementation Reference Group – Outcome
notes](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2022/05/clinical-
implementation-reference-group-outcome-notes.png?itok=8gx4bPLd)

###  [Clinical Implementation Reference Group – Outcome notes
](/resources/collections/clinical-implementation-reference-group-outcome-
notes?language=en)

Outcome notes from the Clinical Implementation Reference Group (CIRG)

## Related committees

This [Prostheses List Advisory Committee](/committees-and-groups/prostheses-
list-advisory-committee-plac "Prostheses List Advisory Committee \(PLAC\)"),
(PLAC) is a long-standing committee which currently provides recommendations
and advice to the Minister for Health and the Department of Health about the
listing of products on the Prostheses List and the benefits payable by private
health insurers.

Last updated:

27 May 2022

Tags:

  * [Medical devices](/topics/medical-devices)
  * [Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

