Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [BreastScreen Australia Program](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program)
  4. [Having a breast screen](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen)

[Having a breast screen](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-
breast-screen)

# Breast screening during COVID-19

Most BreastScreen Australia services remain open with additional safety
measures in place to reduce the ongoing risk of COVID-19. Some BreastScreen
Australia services may temporarily close due to COVID-19 restrictions. You
will be contacted if this affects your appointment.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Breast screening during COVID-19&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen/breast-screening-during-covid-19)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen/breast-screening-during-covid-19)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Breast screening during COVID-19&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen/breast-screening-during-covid-19)

Loading...

On this page

## **If your local BreastScreen Australia service is closed**

Some services may have to temporarily close due to restrictions or operating
at a reduced capacity to minimise the risk of COVID-19 for both participants
and staff.

You will be contacted if this affects your appointment.

You can contact your [local breast screening
provider](https://health.govcms.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/breastscreen-
australia-program/getting-a-breast-screen/where-you-can-get-a-breast-
screen#state-and-territory-contacts) to find out if they are open or book an
appointment.

If your local service provider is closed, ask them to notify you when
appointments become available.

Once a service reopens, they will prioritise women who missed their
appointments and those who are due, or overdue, for screening.

If you recently had a mammogram, you will still receive your results.

If you have been recalled for further assessment, these are still going ahead.

## **Risks of delays**

For most women, a delay to regular screening mammograms is unlikely to have
any long-term impact. If you are concerned about a delay in your mammogram,
contact your doctor or health care worker.

## **Having a mammogram after receiving your COVID-19 vaccine**

Some women may experience swollen or painful lymph nodes following their
COVID-19 vaccination and booster. This is a normal response caused by immune
cells that are activated by the vaccine.

These symptoms may be experienced with any of the COVID-19 vaccines and
boosters.

This swelling occurs in the lymph glands in the underarm area and is known as
lymphadenopathy. Lymphadenopathy is also a symptom of breast cancer, so this
may lead to a false positive mammogram result – the mammogram may look
abnormal even though there is no cancer present.

You should tell your healthcare professional if you have recently been
vaccinated. It is not recommended to delay your COVID-19 vaccination nor your
BreastScreen appointment.

## **Having a private mammogram**

A private mammogram without a Medicare rebate can be expensive (over $700).

If you’re thinking about having a mammogram done privately, talk to your GP or
health care worker first. Mammograms done privately are mainly diagnostic
mammograms. Diagnostic mammography is mainly for women who have clinical
breast symptoms which require investigation.

A referral from your GP or health care worker may mean that you are eligible
for a rebate from Medicare.

Some imaging services may offer bulk billing for mammograms.

## **If you have symptoms**

The BreastScreen Australia program is for women without symptoms. It is very
important to be [breast aware](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/breastscreen-australia-program/be-breast-aware) and to know the
normal look and feel of your breasts. If you find a change in your breast that
you think is unusual or you have concerns regarding your breasts please see
your GP or health care worker without delay.

They will assess you to determine whether you need further diagnostic
measures, such a mammogram or ultrasound. They will refer you to a local
service and will provide the necessary follow up care.

## **Call a helpline**

If you have more general concerns about COVID and your risk of breast cancer,
you may wish to call one of the following helplines.

![Breast Cancer Network Australia \(BCNA\)
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/breast-
cancer-network-australia-bcna.png?itok=yFkIIO-O)

###  [ Breast Cancer Network Australia (BCNA) ](/contacts/breast-cancer-
network-australia-bcna?language=en)

BCNA is a national organisation for Australians affected by breast cancer.
Their website provides information and resources about breast cancer and
offers support through an online community. Call a cancer nurse Monday to
Friday between 9am and 5pm if you have questions or concerns.

[1800 500 258](tel:1800 500 258)

[Breast Cancer Network Australia](https://www.bcna.org.au)

![Cancer Council Australia
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/cancer-
council-australia-hotline.png?itok=N6kAzS8X)

###  [ Cancer Council Australia hotline ](/contacts/cancer-council-australia-
hotline?language=en)

If you have a question about cancer or if you need support, call the Cancer
Council Australia. The hotline is open 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday or visit
their website for more information.

[info@cancer.org.au](mailto:info@cancer.org.au)

[131 120](tel:131 120)

<https://www.cancer.org.au/>

![Lifeline
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/lifeline.jpg?itok=xR72AFrj)

###  [ Lifeline ](/contacts/lifeline?language=en)

Contact Lifeline for support if you are experiencing a personal crisis or have
suicidal thoughts. You can call them 24 hours a day, 7 days a week from
anywhere in Australia.

Lifeline 24-hour crisis line

[131 114](tel:131 114)

[Lifeline Australia](https://www.lifeline.org.au/)

## Other screening programs

Find out what how COVID-19 is affecting the:

  * [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program "National Bowel Cancer Screening Program")
  * [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program "National Cervical Screening Program")

Last updated:

31 January 2022

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [BreastScreen Australia Program](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program)

  * [About the program](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/about-the-breastscreen-australia-program)
  * [Be breast aware](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/be-breast-aware)
  * [Having a breast screen](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen)
    * [Who should have a breast screen](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen/who-should-have-a-breast-screen)
    * [Book your free mammogram](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen/book-your-free-breastscreen-mammogram-appointment)
    * [How breast screening works](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen/how-breast-screening-works)
    * [Understanding your results](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen/understanding-your-breast-screen-results)
    * [Breast screening during COVID-19](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/having-a-breast-screen/breast-screening-during-covid-19)
  * [Your stories](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/your-stories-about-breast-cancer-screening)
  * [Providing breast screening to participants](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/providing-breast-screening-to-participants)
  * [News](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/breastscreen-australia-program-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/breast-cancer-screening-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/breastscreen-australia-program/breast-cancer-screening-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

