Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [About us](/about-us)

[About us](/about-us)

# 100 years of Health

This year we celebrate the 100 year anniversary of the Department of Health.
The department was formed out of a pandemic in 1921, and is now dealing with
the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021. Find out what we've achieved in the last
century.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=100 years of Health&url=https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/100-years-of-health)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/100-years-of-health)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=100 years of Health&body=https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/100-years-of-health)

Loading...

On this page

![Decorative number 100 as logo for 100 years of
health](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/100_years_bw.png?itok=X_c1_Fri)

In March 2021, our focus at Health is on beating the COVID-19 pandemic. One
hundred years ago in March 1921 the Australian Government created the Health
Department just after the deadly Spanish flu pandemic.

The Spanish flu and COVID-19 are the 2 largest pandemics in recorded history.
Last century Spanish influenza killed millions worldwide. Up to 40% of
Australians fell ill and 15,000 died of Spanish flu.

## **The new department**

A century ago infection control became a national issue after state controls
on movement were not able to stop the spread of the Spanish flu. Prime
Minister Billy Hughes officially created the Department of Health on 7 March
1921.

Director General Dr John Howard Cumpston led the new national Health
department. He was the federal director of quarantine during the Spanish flu
pandemic and suggested the creation of the Health Department. Dr Cumpston was
the head of the Department until he retired 24 years later.

![1956 polio vaccination of a young boy in
WA](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/1956_polio_vaccination_wa_july_1956.jpg?itok=8NlzVeVf)

## **Early achievements**

At first Health looked after quarantine, reporting infectious diseases, public
health research laboratories, and occupational health. The 1944 Pharmaceutical
Benefits Act allowed the Australian Government to subsidise medications. This
led to the creation of Medibank, Medicare and the Pharmaceutical Benefits
Scheme we still have today.

Keeping the population healthy has always been our focus. In the 1920s we did
pioneering work to prevent silicosis lung problems in miners. A new portable
X-ray machine was used to reach remote goldfields. From 1950–60 tuberculosis
was reduced with X-ray checks and vaccination around Australia. In the 1950s,
pregnant women got medical checks to improve the outcomes for mothers and
babies.

## **The last 50 years**

The 1970s brought public health campaigns about the dangers of smoking. In
1974 we produced 450,000 posters and 'Please do not smoke' stickers and desk
cards. In 1985 Secretary Bernie McKay banned smoking in Health buildings, the
start of smoke-free government buildings. Towards the 1990s, health campaigns
had a major focus on drug addiction.

![teenagers sit near anti-smoking posters in the
1970s](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/girls_from_1970-1979_-_focus_on_community.jpg?itok=N0Weyb1R)

In 1994 medical training moved outside capital cities to bring more doctors to
rural areas. Also in the 1990s telehealth was an exciting new way to bring
health advice to remote communities. Telehealth became mainstream in 2020
during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdowns.

We continue to keep pace with new health and medical knowledge, and advances
in technology. Our experts at the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA)
examined the COVID-19 vaccines to make sure they were safe and effective
before Australia's vaccine rollout.

Australia's health system is one of the safest in the world. After 100 years
our focus is still on improved health and wellbeing for all Australians.

Last updated:

5 March 2021

Tags:

  * [About the department](/topics/about-the-department)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [About us](/about-us)

  * [The Australian health system](/about-us/the-australian-health-system)
  * [What we do](/about-us/what-we-do)
  * [Who we are](/about-us/who-we-are)
  * [Work with us](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [100 years of Health](/about-us/100-years-of-health)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

