Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)
  3. [Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

[Newsletters](/news/newsletters)

# Protecting Older Australians – COVID-19 update 8 May 2023

In this issue, read about managing COVID-19, COVID-19 vaccination booster
doses, influenza vaccinations, accessing COVID-19 PCR testing through
Medicare, IPC Lead Nurse training grants, PPE winter deployment, and the ACCPA
Winter preparedness webinar.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Protecting Older Australians – COVID-19 update 8 May 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/protecting-older-australians-covid-19-update-8-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/protecting-older-australians-covid-19-update-8-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Protecting Older Australians – COVID-19 update 8 May 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/newsletters/protecting-older-australians-covid-19-update-8-may-2023)

Loading...

Date published:

10 May 2023

Audience:

Health sector

On this page

## Continuing to manage COVID-19

We acknowledge that COVID-19 continues to disrupt the lives of all
Australians, but particularly the most vulnerable people in our communities,
including older Australians. It is important that firm and strong protections
are maintained to ensure aged care services can protect our older Australians
and manage the impact of COVID-19 in a way that is cognisant of rights of
older Australians.

All Australians have a role to play in protecting our own health, the health
of our loved ones, and supporting our health systems. Vaccination continues to
be important in managing the risk related to COVID-19 in high-risk settings,
such as aged care. All aged care workers are strongly encouraged to stay up to
date with their influenza and COVID-19 vaccinations to aid protection against
both infection and severe disease, including accessing a 2023 booster does
when eligible.

You may also be interested to know that on 12 December 2022, the Australian
Government released the [National Statement of Expectations on COVID-19
Management in Aged Care
Settings](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-
covid-19-health-management-plan-for-2023) to provide nationally consistent
principles and best practice guidance to the aged care sector on their
responsibilities for preparing for and responding to COVID‑19 outbreaks,
including supporting access to vaccinations in aged care homes.

It sets out and reinforces the Government’s expectation of the actions aged
care providers should take, including in relation to ensuring that appropriate
Infection Prevention and Control settings are in place and can be scaled up
quickly, when needed. It also supports the ability of aged care services to
ensure older Australians, at home or in residential settings, receive
appropriate protection from and management of any COVID-19 infections in their
surrounds.

## COVID-19 vaccination booster doses

We encourage all providers to work with primary care providers to plan for
residents to receive the COVID-19 booster dose as soon as they are eligible.
We recommend that the 2023 COVID-19 booster dose be given prior to June 2023
and at a time of 6 months or greater following the most recent COVID-19
vaccine dose or confirmed infection.

This booster dose will bolster residents' protection from severe illness,
hospitalisation, or death from COVID-19 over the winter season. Primary care
providers (general practitioners, registered nurses in general practices,
community pharmacies) are best placed to provide this service. If you are
experiencing difficulty in arranging vaccinations, the Primary Health Networks
(PHNs) will facilitate linkages to providers to arrange vaccinations for
eligible residents, noting no minimum number of residents is required.

COVID-19 vaccines will continue to be principally administered in residential
aged care homes by primary care providers. These primary care providers
delivered the majority of COVID-19 vaccinations in residential aged care in
2022 and are well placed to continue this important work.

Where available, we strongly encourage the bivalent vaccine as this offers
additional protection against the original COVID-19 virus and the most recent
Omicron variants.

The Department is working closely with PHNs to support residential aged care
homes that may need assistance with COVID-19 vaccinations for residents. PHNs
are facilitating COVID-19 vaccination clinics via primary care providers such
as general practitioners and registered nurses in general practices and
community pharmacies.

PHNs have now made contact with the majority of residential aged care homes
across Australia to offer support. If you have not heard from your local PHN
and are in need of assistance, please reach out to them directly or contact
the Department by emailing
[RACFVaccineClinics@health.gov.au](mailto:RACFVaccineClinics@health.gov.au).

## Influenza vaccinations

Influenza vaccination is important again this year. As travel continues, we
are starting to see seasonal influenza activity, with the Australian community
potentially more vulnerable to the virus this winter.

The Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI) advice
strongly recommends that vaccination remains one of the most effective
protective factors for both influenza and COVID-19. Both vaccines are
recommended for residents ahead of the winter season.

Annual influenza vaccination is recommended for all people aged 6 months and
over (unless contraindicated). Free influenza vaccinations are available under
the [National Immunisation Program
(NIP)](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-
vaccinated/national-immunisation-program-schedule#flu-influenza-vaccines) for
people most at risk, including all eligible residents aged 65 years and older,
subject to local supply arrangements in states and territories.

### What you need to do

The stock of influenza vaccines under the NIP has been distributed by states
and territories and is available through GPs and pharmacies. Aged care
providers must have arrangements in place for the delivery of influenza
vaccines for their residents and staff. This includes making sure processes
are in place, engaging with your immunisation providers and discussing the
program with staff, residents and their families. This is a requirement to
comply with the [Aged Care Quality
Standards](https://www.agedcarequality.gov.au/providers/standards).

Your service must take precautions to prevent and control influenza and
minimise infection-related risks. This includes:

  * identifying and complying with all relevant Commonwealth and state or territory legislation and regulatory requirements
  * having an effective infection prevention and control (IPC) program that is in line with [national guidelines](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-covid-19-community-protection-framework?language=en)
  * offering free [influenza (flu) vaccinations](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/vaccines/influenza-flu-vaccine?language=en "Influenza \(flu\) vaccine") every year to your staff and volunteers and keeping records of their vaccinations.

You must also demonstrate:

  * how you have promoted and informed your staff and volunteers about the benefits of vaccination, including obtaining consent
  * the steps you have taken to encourage staff and volunteers to get vaccinated. 

For more information, refer to the [Quality of Care Principles
2014](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2019C00613) and the [Records
Principles 2014](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2019C00610).

The [Aged Care Quality and Safety
Commission](https://www.agedcarequality.gov.au/) assesses compliance with the
influenza vaccination program.

For those not eligible for NIP funded vaccines, influenza vaccines are
available through private market arrangements. If you have not already done
so, you are strongly encouraged to implement arrangements to ensure you meet
the requirements set out in the legislation – including working with your
immunisation providers to facilitate staff vaccinations.

If you require assistance in organising influenza vaccinations, contact your
vaccination provider or your [state or territory Department of
Health](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/immunisation/immunisation-
contacts#state-and-territory-immunisation-health-services) as soon as
possible.

## Co-administration of COVID-19 and flu vaccination

ATAGI advises that COVID-19 doses are safe to be administered at the same time
as the annual influenza vaccination. Co-administration of COVID-19 doses and
influenza vaccines for residents is both clinically safe and administratively
efficient.

More information on access to influenza vaccinations through the NIP can be
found on the [Department's
website](https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/vaccines/influenza-flu-
vaccine?language=en). Promotional materials including posters and brochures
are available from the 2023 [influenza resource
collection](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/collections/getting-
vaccinated-against-influenza-resource-collection?language=en).

## Reminder: accessing COVID-19 PCR testing through Medicare

From 1 May 2023, residential aged care homes (RACHs) are required to access
COVID-19 PCR testing through standard Medicare arrangements, where GPs and
nurse practitioners directly request, by referral, COVID-19 and respiratory
PCR tests from a pathology provider to assist with the clinical management of
patients.

COVID-19 PCR testing is available under Medicare for Medicare eligible
patients. Any COVID-19 PCR testing under Medicare must be bulk-billed and at
no cost to aged care homes or patients. Information about Medicare eligibility
can be found on the [Medicare
website](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare).

Most pathology providers will organise collection and testing of samples,
including onsite testing (like the Sonic service) and results reported
directly to the treating practitioner. Some pathology providers may give RACHs
access to their residents’ test results via an online portal similar to the
Sonic Dx test result portal.

## Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) Lead Nurse training grants

Residential aged care providers can still apply for funding to support
registered and enrolled nurses to complete specialist IPC Lead Nurse training.

Support is available up to a maximum of $13,020 per eligible nurse, for up to
2 registered or enrolled nurses in each eligible residential aged care home,
for costs relating to:

  * fees for suitable IPC training courses
  * wages for study leave
  * wages for backfilling for nurses undertaking study.

This funding provides support for more nurses in residential aged care to
access IPC Lead Nurse training. Highly skilled staff will ensure residential
aged care homes are well prepared to prevent or manage future infectious
disease outbreaks including influenza and COVID-19.

For an IPC specialist course to be deemed suitable, it must:

  * focus on infection prevention and control
  * be specified at the level of AQF8
  * be delivered by a recognised education or training provider
  * have an assessment, or assessments, that facilitate successful completion of the course.

The grant opportunity opened 1 December 2022 and applications close at **2pm,
30 June 2023 (AEST)**.

Find out more about this Grant Opportunity: Aged Care Infection Prevention and
Control Training (GO5867) on the
[GrantConnect](https://www.grants.gov.au/Go/Show?GoUuid=0586d540-a280-4f45-8bcd-7d8dc82d0614)
website.

## Personal protective equipment (PPE) - Winter deployment

The Australian Government continues to support the sector ahead of winter by
deploying PPE packs to all Commonwealth funded residential aged care homes,
MPSs, and NATSIFACP services. Deliveries have commenced and all deliveries
will be completed by late May 2023. If you have any questions, please contact
the Department at
[AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au](mailto:AgedCareCOVIDEnquiries@health.gov.au).

**Update – Changes to PPE Outbreak and Emergency Packs from the Department of
Health and Aged Care**

From 3 May 2023, goggles are no longer available for order through the
Department. Face shields will continue to remain available as a suitable
alternative.

The updated request quantities for each pack type are below:

Outbreak Packs (2 weeks stock)

**Facility size**

|

**Surgical masks**

|

**N95**

|

**Gloves S**

|

**Gloves M**

|

**Gloves L**

|

**Gloves XL**

|

**Gowns**

|

**Face shields**  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
**Extra small**

|

1800

|

4100

|

3000

|

6000

|

5000

|

2000

|

2900

|

3200  
  
**Small**

|

2200

|

4900

|

3000

|

6000

|

5000

|

2000

|

3700

|

3200  
  
**Medium**

|

2600

|

6200

|

3000

|

6000

|

5000

|

2000

|

4700

|

3500  
  
**Large**

|

3200

|

7300

|

5000

|

8000

|

7000

|

2000

|

5300

|

4300  
  
**Extra large**

|

4000

|

9000

|

5000

|

10,000

|

8000

|

2000

|

6700

|

5000  
  
Emergency Packs (3 days stock)

**Facility size**

|

**Surgical masks**

|

**N95**

|

**Gloves S**

|

**Gloves M**

|

**Gloves L**

|

**Gloves XL**

|

**Gowns**

|

**Face shields**  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
**Extra small**

|

960

|

1080

|

1000

|

1000

|

1000

|

1000

|

700

|

800  
  
**Small**

|

960

|

1080

|

1000

|

1000

|

1000

|

1000

|

800

|

800  
  
**Medium**

|

960

|

1080

|

1000

|

1000

|

1000

|

1000

|

1000

|

800  
  
**Large**

|

960

|

2160

|

1000

|

2000

|

2000

|

1000

|

1200

|

1200  
  
**Extra large**

|

960

|

2160

|

1000

|

2000

|

2000

|

1000

|

1500

|

1200  
  
Please note there are no changes to the current order process. Requests for
PPE from the Department can continue to be submitted through the [My Aged Care
provider portal](https://health.us10.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1108de8332cef333bc1956686&id=6b2e7f0c7b&e=e693b970b0).

For any queries about this change, please email
[agedcarecovidliaison@health.gov.au](mailto:agedcarecovidliaison@health.gov.au).

## ACCPA Winter preparedness webinar for CHSP providers

The Aged and Community Care Provider Association (ACCPA) is hosting a webinar
for Commonwealth Home Support Program (CHSP) providers to prepare for the
winter season through lessening the risks and impacts of influenza and
COVID-19 infection.

Aimed at CHSP providers, this webinar is an opportunity to talk about
practical steps providers can take to prepare their service. Speakers from the
Department and the Commission will join ACCPA us at this free event for
practical advice, actions and tips to lessen the risks and impacts of
infection for the older person and the workforce.

When: **Tuesday 9 May 2023, at 1.00pm - 2.00pm (AEST)**.

Please [register to attend](https://lasa.eventsair.com/chsp-transitioning-to-
the-home-support-program-webinars-series/rego23/Site/Register).

For more information contact
[events@accpa.asn.au](mailto:training@accpa.asn.au).

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Influenza (flu)](/diseases/influenza-flu)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [COVID-19](/diseases/covid-19)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  * [Aged care workforce](/topics/aged-care-workforce)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

