Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  4. [Information for aged care providers, workers and residents about COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)

[Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-
workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)

# Residential aged care residents

Vaccination is the most effective protection against COVID-19. Protecting the
people who live and work in residential aged care is a priority.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Residential aged care residents&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines/residential-aged-care-residents)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines/residential-aged-care-residents)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Residential aged care residents&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines/residential-aged-care-residents)

Loading...

On this page

Residential aged care resident vaccination rates by residential aged care home
are available in an [interactive map](/resources/apps-and-tools/residential-
aged-care-residents-covid-19-vaccination-rates "Residential aged care
residents COVID-19 vaccination rates") and [downloadable
report](/node/41530#downloadable-files).

Data is from the Australian Immunisation Register and is updated every
Wednesday.

## **Why residents should get vaccinated**

COVID-19 vaccination is voluntary but strongly encouraged for residents in
aged care facilities. It remains the most effective protection against severe
illness, hospitalisation and death from COVID-19.

For the best protection, the expert Australian Technical Advisory Group on
Immunisation (ATAGI) recommends a 2023 COVID-19 vaccine booster dose for all
adults aged 65 years and over and all adults aged 18-64 who have medical
comorbidities that increase their risk of sever COVID-19, or disability with
significant or complex health needs.

ATAGI [recommends](/news/atagi-2023-booster-advice "ATAGI 2023 booster
advice") residents receive a 2023 booster dose from 6 months:

  * after their previous booster dose, or
  * after a confirmed COVID-19 infection (whichever was first)

If you have any concerns, please talk to your doctor or other health
professional about the benefits and risks of vaccination.

## **How can I get my recommended COVID-19 vaccinations?**

Your aged care home is responsible for ensuring you are offered the
opportunity to receive a COVID-19 vaccination.

You are eligible to receive a COVID-19 booster dose from 6 months after you
received your previous booster dose, or 6 months after a confirmed COVID-19
infection.

Your aged care home staff will discuss with you and your substitute decision
maker, whether you consent to be vaccinated and they can assist you to
complete the [consent form or record your verbal
consent](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-
consent-form-for-covid-19-vaccination). This needs to occur prior to the date
of your vaccination.

If you are yet to receive a first, second or any booster dose, you can ask
your aged care home to organise your vaccination.

Your aged care home can make arrangements at any time for you to get
vaccinated with the dose you require by a visiting GP to your aged care home
as soon as you are eligible within the ATAGI recommended intervals.

## **Which vaccine can I get?**

There are 3 safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines available in Australia:,

  1. Comirnaty (Pfizer)
  2. Spikevax (Moderna)
  3. Nuvaxovid (Novavax).

All vaccines are highly effective at preventing death and severe illness among
people who contract COVID-19.

All residents living in an aged care home are prioritised to receive the
Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, including for all doses.

Residents can request to receive the Spikevax (Moderna) or Nuvaxovid (Novavax)
vaccine.

The Comirnaty (Pfizer), Spikevax (Moderna) and Nuvaxovid (Novavax) are the
only vaccines currently approved for booster doses in Australia.

Find out which vaccine you can receive on the [Who can get
vaccinated](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated) page

**[Learn more about COVID-19 vaccines.](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-
vaccines "Our COVID-19 vaccines")**

## **Providing consent**

All aged care residents must provide valid consent before receiving a COVID-19
vaccine.

Aged care facilities are responsible for obtaining that consent:

  * Prior to the first dose, residents are asked to provide consent for both a first and second dose of a primary course of a COVID-19 vaccine. For most people this is 2 doses of a COVID-19 vaccine.
  * For residents who are assessed by a GP as being severely immunocompromised, a third dose may be recommended. Residents will be asked to provide consent for a third dose if this is recommended. A third dose is different to a booster dose.
  * Prior to a booster dose, residents are asked to provide consent to receive a COVID-19 vaccine.
  * Prior to a booster dose, residents are asked to provide consent to receive a COVID-19 vaccine

There are two ways your aged care home can capture resident consent:

  * written consent – using the Australian Government’s [written consent form](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-consent-form-for-covid-19-vaccination "COVID-19 vaccination – Consent form for COVID-19 vaccination") or using the aged care home's own consent form.
  * verbal consent – verbal consent must be recorded by the aged care home in a resident’s care notes, following usual practices.

Aged care providers keep a record of the resident’s consent for all doses to
share with those who give the vaccine for recording on the Australian
Immunisation Register.

## **Consent by a guardian or substitute decision-maker**

Some jurisdictions have specific requirements relevant to guardians (or
substitute decision-makers) consenting on behalf of another person.

If consenting to COVID-19 vaccination on behalf of an aged care recipient,
please refer to the enduring guardianship legislation in your state or
territory.

## **Getting vaccinated before entering an aged care home**

Senior Australians planning to enter an aged care home are strongly encouraged
to get vaccinated against COVID-19 prior to their move.

To monitor the COVID-19 vaccination status of new residents, all residential
aged care facilities will follow the [COVID-19 New Residence Entrance
Protocol](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-new-resident-entrance-
protocol-flow-chart "COVID-19 vaccination – New resident entrance protocol
flow chart").

## Is evidence of COVID-19 vaccination required?

Your aged care home will discuss with you how they will record your COVID-19
vaccination status, and you are encouraged to provide evidence of your
vaccination status.

You can provide:

  * a vaccination certificate or other evidence from a vaccine provider, or
  * an immunisation history statement (this can be accessed via Medicare online or the Express Plus Medicare mobile app.)

Residents can also provide a signed declaration, a statement of vaccination
history from the Australian Immunisation Register, or a record from a health
practitioner.

## **Why does my aged care home need to know if I am vaccinated?**

Your residential aged care service need to know your COVID-19 vaccination
status to support you access a vaccine when you are eligible.

This will also help your aged care home to prepare, plan and respond to a
COVID-19 outbreak. It will be important to know how many residents and workers
have been vaccinated so that protective measures can be put in place for those
who have not been vaccinated.

## **Resources for residents**

The following resources can assist in deciding about COVID-19 vaccination:

  * [Decision guide to help people who are frail or very old](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-shared-decision-making-guide-for-frail-older-people-including-those-in-residential-aged-care-facilities "COVID-19 vaccination – Shared decision making guide for frail older people, including those in residential aged care facilities")
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated "Who can get vaccinated")
  * [Preparing for COVID-19 vaccination](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-preparing-for-covid-19-vaccination "COVID-19 vaccination – Preparing for COVID-19 vaccination")
  * [Consent form](/resources/publications/covid-19-vaccination-consent-form-for-covid-19-vaccination "COVID-19 vaccination – Consent form for COVID-19 vaccination").

These information sheets are available in [several languages](/node/18208).

Last updated:

20 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)
  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
    * [Reporting requirements](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines/mandatory-covid-19-vaccination-reporting)
    * [Information for residents](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines/residential-aged-care-residents)
    * [Information for workers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines/residential-aged-care-workers)
    * [Information for providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines/residential-aged-care-service-providers)
    * [In-home and community aged care recipients, workers and providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines/in-home-and-community-aged-care-recipients-workers-and-providers)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

