Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# Strengthening Medicare for the future

The Albanese Government has released the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce
report.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Strengthening Medicare for the future&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/strengthening-medicare-for-the-future)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/strengthening-medicare-for-the-future)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Strengthening Medicare for the future&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/strengthening-medicare-for-the-future)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

3 February 2023

Date published:

3 February 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

Today, the Albanese Government has released the report of the Strengthening
Medicare Taskforce.  
  
Developed by primary health care leaders and experts in their fields, the
report sets out a recommended pathway for significant reforms to strengthen
Medicare and rebuild general practice.  
  
Australians deserve access to a world class primary care system that is
designed and funded for the 21st century - a system that reflects the disease
profile of an older population, including a population that has more complex
chronic disease.  
  
After nine years of cuts and neglect by the former Government, primary care is
in the worst shape it has been in 40 years - bulk billing rates are in decline
and only 14 per cent of medical graduates now choose to work in general
practice, dropping from 50 per cent.

Patient centred care is central to the recommendations of the report,
supported by an expansion of multidisciplinary care as the key to managing the
health of an older population with more complex and chronic disease.  
  
The report recommends supporting this with new blended funding models,
integrated with the existing fee-for-service model, allowing teams of GPs,
nurses, midwives, and allied health professionals to work together to deliver
the care people need.  
  
The Taskforce found that strengthening primary care with a greater range of
health professionals working to their full scope of practice will optimise use
of the health workforce across a stretched primary care sector. This will
deliver increased access to healthcare and improved equity of outcomes in
rural, regional and remote areas.  
  
Recognising the unique challenges in rural and remote Australia, the report
calls for a greater role for Primary Health Networks, including to commission
nursing and allied health services to bolster general practice teams in these
areas.  
  
The Taskforce found that Strengthening Medicare requires the modernisation of
digital systems and significant improvements in the way patients’ information
is accessed and shared across the health system. An overhaul of My Health
Record and improvements to better connect clinical IT systems across the
health system is recommended to enable safe, quality healthcare, better
medicine management for patients and to empower people to be more involved in
their own health care.  
  
The report outlines that the success of these reforms will rely on engagement
with consumers in the design and delivery of services, and support for the
sector to transition to new ways of working.  
  
The Government has committed $750 million to deliver the highest priority
investments in primary care, in line with the recommendations of the
Strengthening Medicare Taskforce. We will bring forward our plan through this
year’s Budget.  
  
The final report of the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce can be found
[here.](https://markbutler.us8.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=8a3d58d1cfb663c4dcefbc00d&id=dcdd165741&e=952efddb87)  
  
**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

“Medicare has been the crowning achievement of our health system for 40 years,
but it is time for reform. Now is the time to ensure Medicare delivers the
kind of primary care Australians expect, both now and into the future.  
  
“Our Government has committed $750 million to the Strengthening Medicare Fund,
which will be the start of a major revamp of the primary care system.  
  
“I would like to express my sincere thanks to each member of the Strengthening
Medicare Taskforce for their hard work and insights. This is an important
foundation for the work to come in modernising and improving Medicare.  
  
“The improvements they have identified are aimed at making sure every
Australian can get the high quality care they deserve.”

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

