Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Anika Wells MP](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  3. [Minister Wells' media](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp/media)

[Minister Wells' media](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp/media)

# Television interview with Minister Wells and Allison Langdon, A Current
Affair - 19 April 2023

Read the transcript of Minister Wells' interview with Allison Langdon on
Wesley Mission closures; aged care sector.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Television interview with Minister Wells and Allison Langdon, A Current Affair - 19 April 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp/media/television-interview-with-minister-wells-and-allison-langdon-a-current-affair-19-april-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp/media/television-interview-with-minister-wells-and-allison-langdon-a-current-affair-19-april-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Television interview with Minister Wells and Allison Langdon, A Current Affair - 19 April 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp/media/television-interview-with-minister-wells-and-allison-langdon-a-current-affair-19-april-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-anika-wells-
mp_3.jpg?itok=XAes3YdL)

**The Hon Anika Wells MP**  
Minister for Aged Care  
Minister for Sport

Media event date:

19 April 2023

Date published:

20 April 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**ALLISON LANGDON - HOST:** I spoke with the Minister for Aged Care, Anika
Wells, a short time ago. Anika, really appreciate your time. You must feel for
Bev, Stuart and all of the residents who are really scared and anxious right
now.

**MINISTER FOR AGED CARE AND SPORT, ANIKA WELLS:** Yeah. Your heart goes out
to them, doesn't it? Stuart and Bev in particular, given their kids did
everything that you would ask of Australians to do in this situation, and yet
they're still being presented with this letter under the door. My heart really
goes out to them.

**LANGDON:** How did Wesley Mission come to you? Could you have stopped the
closures or can you still save them?

**WELLS:** Well, like the rest of the country, I found out from breakfast
television telling us that Wesley Mission was closing three facilities, which
I think is really disappointing. But also mostly, like you say, for the
residents who found a letter under their door one morning asking them to leave
by the end of May… I want to assure those residents and their families that
their rights under the Act state Wesley Mission cannot close its doors until
residents are found suitable accommodation elsewhere.

And we are now working with Wesley Mission and providers nearby to make sure
that happens. And I'm heartened by the fact that many other providers have
stepped forward like UnitingCare and Hammond Care, to make sure those
residents and workers are looked after.

**LANGDON:** I think for a lot of people the question is, it happened to
Wesley Mission? Who else? And you didn't see this coming? Wesley Mission since
apologised to you for that?

Are you now checking in on all aged care facilities so you're not blindsided
again?

**WELLS:** Well, we have data that tells us how people are tracking both
financially and towards targets like 24/7 nurses. And Wesley Mission was
tracking towards meeting that goal by 1 July.

So that's why I think that was such a blindside for us. We keep a very close
eye on the viability of the sector.

**LANGDON:** The boss of Wesley Mission says they're not the first and they
won't be the last. So what happens when the next one closes?

**WELLS:** Well, I think where people are coming to us saying that they are in
financial distress or they feel like they are not able to meet the targets, we
are working with them.

There are grants available in some cases, particularly for regional and remote
facilities.

Also we can highlight all of the reforms coming down the line that will help
providers make things more viable and sustainable.

**LANGDON:** You'd assume that this wasn't an easy decision for Wesley Mission
to make.

**WELLS:** I have to assume because they didn't engage with me on it.

**LANGDON:** Are you still mad about that?

**WELLS:** I feel mad on behalf of people like Bev and Stuart. How could you
not when you see the story and there are thousands of stories out there. But
again, plenty of providers are doing the right thing.

Plenty of providers have actually been providing 24/7 nursing care for
decades. And it was two years ago that the Royal Commission recommended that
all facilities put that into place.

So the overwhelming majority of facilities have done that. And I’m excited
about what lies ahead for aged care in this country. But I know that's of cold
comfort to people like Bev and Stuart tonight.

And we are working with Wesley Mission to make sure that all those residents
find suitable accommodation.

**LANGDON:** I think this took the whole country by surprise to see these
three homes closed down with such little warning. Are you worried this is just
the tip of the iceberg?

**WELLS:** None of the data I have suggests that.

**LANGDON:** And if you've got 70% of homes that are operating at a loss now,
and if you look at what's to come, the minimum wage would jump 15 per cent in
July, which aged care workers deserve.

They're going to need that registered nurse on duty 24 hours a day. There's
going to be potentially higher interest rates. If they're doing it tough now,
how will they cope in a couple of months?

**WELLS:** Because we have more reforms on the way that will make things
easier for providers. You know that the budget is only a few weeks away, that
we have been working diligently on this since coming to government last year
to make sure we lift the standard of care in this country for residents and
their families, what Australians want to see is a higher standard of care. But
on the other side we are doing things that make this a viable ecosystem for
providers to operate in.

**LANGDON:** What we're hearing from the peak industry group and what we also
heard from the CEO of Wesley Mission. It doesn't marry up even with the
additional funding that you're putting in, the extra 5 billion that comes in
next month, you're still going to see more homes close.

**WELLS:** I think it's the case that aged care facilities have always opened
and closed across the decades. I want to reassure your viewers that we have
more beds opening than closing across the country at the moment, and that all
the data suggests that profitability will increase at the next round of
reports.

And you make a good point. We aren't asking providers to do this off their own
bat. Taxpayers are paying to lift the standard of care in this country.

**LANGDON:** I imagine you're fighting very hard for your share of the
Canberra money pot, but there are pockets of cash needed for things like NDIS,
Medicare. You just had a government committee coming out saying jobseeker
should be raised to almost $1,000 a fortnight.

That will cost $24 billion over four years. It's not a bottomless pit. So who
gets the money?

**WELLS:** I can assure you that aged care is a big part of the budget. It's
coming in just a few weeks’ time. I do think that the sustainability of aged
care and the sustainability of a system where we lift the standard of care is
probably the great unanswered question from the Royal Commission.

And that means now we need to take stock more than two years on, get together
and have a national conversation about what Australians are prepared for and
what they expect of their governments to do.

You would have seen in December I launched Star Ratings. That was another
recommendation of the Royal Commission and Star Ratings allows every
Australian to look at any facility and see how they're going, what residents
think of the food, what their profitability is like, what their workforce is
like, and they can make a decision about whether or not they think that is
acceptable.

**LANGDON:** Are you saying we need to be prepared to pay more for aged care?

**WELLS:** I'm saying we need to have a national conversation about what
Australians expect of aged care and what is needed from taxpayers and their
Federal Government.

**LANGDON:** I think the issue for a lot of families is to even get into an
aged care facility, they've got to sell their family home. There's not a lot
of money left over.

And if we're talking about people having to pay more to get into a home, I'm
not sure how much more a lot of people have.

**WELLS:** And I think that's why what we need to do is have a discussion
about it. We need to hear from people about where they are finding things too
difficult, where they are finding inefficiencies in the system.

I know a lot of that information went into the Royal Commission, but that
final report is now more than two years old.

**LANGDON:** Can you provide some comfort for those at home who right now
might be worried that their home or the home their loved one is the next
Wesley Mission home?  
What comfort can you provide them?

**WELLS:** Well, I want them to know that for ten days of pre-poll, ahead of
the election last year I stood and asked people what they were voting for and
so many people told me they were voting to fix aged care in this country.

And I can't believe that I have the privilege of now being the Minister for
Aged Care tasked with the job of getting that done. And I genuinely believe
that the reforms that we are bringing, all of which were asked of government
from the Royal Commission more than two years ago, will lift the standard of
care in this country.

But we are also putting billions of dollars of money into making sure that
that happens and supporting the people tasked with doing it. And while I think
it will take a while for this all to take effect and for people to feel it on
the ground, we should have ambition for aged care and people should take hope
that we are turning the corner.

**LANGDON:** Okay, from day one, you've rolled up your sleeves and you've been
on a mission. Minister, really appreciate your time this evening. Thank you.

**WELLS:** It's a pleasure, Alli.

Tags:

  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Anika Wells MP](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

