Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [News and media](/news)

[News and media](/news)

# Ashgrove pharmacist found guilty for more than $1.9m in Medicare fraud

A pharmacist has been convicted and sentenced to five years imprisonment
today, after pleading guilty to fraudulently claiming more than $1.9 million
in payments under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS).

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Ashgrove pharmacist found guilty for more than $1.9m in Medicare fraud&url=https://www.health.gov.au/news/ashgrove-pharmacist-found-guilty-for-more-than-19m-in-medicare-fraud)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/news/ashgrove-pharmacist-found-guilty-for-more-than-19m-in-medicare-fraud)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Ashgrove pharmacist found guilty for more than $1.9m in Medicare fraud&body=https://www.health.gov.au/news/ashgrove-pharmacist-found-guilty-for-more-than-19m-in-medicare-fraud)

Loading...

Date published:

14 March 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

A pharmacist has been convicted and sentenced to five years imprisonment with
a minimum term of 18 months by the Brisbane District Court today, 14 March
2023 after pleading guilty to fraudulently claiming more than $1.9 million in
payments under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS).

This outcome is the culmination of a strong collaboration between the
Department of Health and Aged Care, Commonwealth Director of Public
Prosecutions (CDPP) and the Australian Federal Police (AFP).

Ashgrove pharmacist, Mr Shahin Ardalan was charged with one count of obtaining
a financial advantage under section 134.2(1) of the _Criminal Code Act 1995._

This matter was also referred to the AFP led Criminal Asset Confiscation
Taskforce (CACT), which restrained residential property, shares and
cryptocurrency linked to Mr Ardalan.

On 12 July 2022, the District Court of Queensland ordered Mr Ardalan to pay
$1.9 million to the Commonwealth pursuant to section 116(1) of the _Proceeds
of Crime Act 2002 (Cth)_.

The charges relate to an investigation conducted by the Department of Health
and Aged Care that found Mr Ardalan unlawfully claimed benefits under the PBS
between 5 January 2017 and 1 May 2020. As a result, he received $1,942,515.44
in benefits to which he was not entitled.

Mr Ardalan has repaid the money in full through the AFP’s Proceeds of Crime
Action.

Today’s sentencing is a reminder of the real and serious punishments for those
who defraud taxpayers via the Medicare system. The Department of Health and
Aged Care takes allegations of Medicare non-compliance very seriously and all
tip-offs are reviewed.

There is no place for fraud in the Medicare system. Where incorrectly or
fraudulently claimed benefits are identified, the Department will seek to
recover those funds and/or refer matters to the CDPP where criminal
prosecution is considered appropriate.

Anyone with information about suspected non-compliance or fraud of Government
health payments by health providers can make a report via the “Reporting
Fraud” page on the Department of Health’s website at [www.health.gov.au/fraud-
tip-offs](http://www.health.gov.au/fraud-tip-offs) or by calling the Provider
Benefits Integrity Hotline on 1800 314 808.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

### Departmental media enquiries

Contact for members of the media

[news@health.gov.au](mailto:news@health.gov.au?subject=Media enquiry - News
item ID 3086&body=URL - https%3A%2F%2Fwww.health.gov.au%2Fnews%2Fashgrove-
pharmacist-found-guilty-for-more-than-19m-in-medicare-fraud)

[02 6289 7400](tel:02 6289 7400)

[View contact](/contacts/departmental-media-enquiries)

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

