Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme)

[Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme)

# About the Stoma Appliance Scheme

The Stoma Appliance Scheme provides fully subsidised stoma appliances and
products to people who have a stoma or fistula that facilitates the removal of
urine and/or products of the gastrointestinal tract from the body. Find out
what a stoma is, what the scheme does and who can access it.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About the Stoma Appliance Scheme&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/about-the-stoma-appliance-scheme)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/about-the-stoma-appliance-scheme)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About the Stoma Appliance Scheme&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/about-the-stoma-appliance-scheme)

Loading...

On this page

## What a stoma is

When someone has surgery to remove part or all of their bladder, bowel or
colon, a surgeon will make a temporary or permanent opening in their abdomen
to allow for the removal of bodily waste. This opening is called a stoma.

People with a stoma wear a disposable bag (or 'stoma appliance') to cover the
stoma and collect the waste.

They might also need other products, such as deodorants, creams, cleansers and
belts to manage their stoma.

## **Stoma Appliance Scheme Schedule**

The [Stoma Appliance Scheme Schedule](/resources/apps-and-tools/stoma-
appliance-scheme/schedule "Stoma Appliance Scheme Schedule") lists all
appliances and products subsidised by the Australian Government under the
scheme.

Ostomates, stomal therapy nurses and other health professionals can search and
filter the scheme schedule through an online tool to view all products.

Suppliers can apply to [list their product on the scheme schedule](/our-
work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-suppliers "Stoma
Appliance Scheme for suppliers") if it meets a clinical need.

## Why the scheme is important

In Australia around 50,000 people have a stoma. People with a stoma are
referred to as ‘ostomates’.

The Stoma Appliance Scheme provides free stoma appliances and products to
ostomates through [stoma
associations](https://australianstoma.com.au/associations/).

Ostomates pay an annual membership fee to one of the associations, which order
stoma products from suppliers, and distribute them to their members, as
needed.

This saves each ostomate an average of over $2,000 per year, enabling them to
maintain their health and wellbeing, and to live their lives normally. The
scheme provided ostomates with over $100 million worth of stoma appliances and
products in 2021-22.

Read more about stomas and living with an ostomy from the [Australian
Association of Stomal Therapy Nurses](https://stomaltherapy.au/).

## Who can access the scheme

To be eligible for free stoma appliances and products under the scheme, you
must have a stoma and have a current:

  * Medicare or Department of Veterans’ Affairs number if living in Australia
  * Australian Reciprocal Medicare number if you usually live in a [Reciprocal Health Care Agreement](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/about-reciprocal-health-care-agreements?context=22481) country, or
  * passport number if you usually live in New Zealand or the Republic of Ireland.

Read more about [accessing the scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-
appliance-scheme-for-ostomates "Stoma Appliance Scheme for ostomates ").

## **Who we work with**

We set the policy for the scheme and manage the [scheme's
schedule](/resources/apps-and-tools/stoma-appliance-scheme/schedule "Stoma
Appliance Scheme Schedule") and approval process.

Working with us to deliver the scheme are:

  * the [Stoma Product Assessment Panel](/committees-and-groups/stoma-product-assessment-panel "Stoma Product Assessment Panel") which assesses applications for new listings and recommends any changes to the stoma products and appliances listed on the scheme schedule
  * the [Australian Council of Stoma Associations (ACSA)](https://australianstoma.com.au/) which is the peak body representing stoma associations, and monitors their compliance with scheme guidelines
  * [stoma associations](https://australianstoma.com.au/associations/) which – distribute products to their members
  * [Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/stoma-appliance-scheme-information-stoma-associations) which – processes claims for payments from the stoma associations.

## Resources

The [resources page](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-
resources "Stoma Appliance Scheme resources") provides copies of guidelines,
the Stoma Appliance Schedule, forms for ostomates and suppliers, Stoma Product
Assessment Panel public summary documents and utilisation and expenditure
data.

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Stoma Appliance Scheme and the Stoma Product Assessment Panel contact
](/contacts/stoma-appliance-scheme-and-the-stoma-product-assessment-panel-
contact?language=en)

Contact us for more information about the Stoma Appliance Scheme or the Stoma
Product Assessment Panel, or to apply for the panel to assess one of your
products for the Stoma Appliance Scheme Schedule.

[stoma@health.gov.au](mailto:stoma@health.gov.au)

[02 6289 2308](tel:02 6289 2308)

Last updated:

31 October 2022

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  * [Medical devices](/topics/medical-devices)
  * [Bladder and bowel](/topics/bladder-and-bowel)
  * [Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme)

  * [About the Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/about-the-stoma-appliance-scheme)
  * [For ostomates](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-ostomates)
  * [For stoma associations](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-stoma-associations)
  * [For suppliers](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-suppliers)
  * [Resources](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-resources)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

