Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  4. [Health technology assessments](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments)

[Health technology assessments (HTAs)](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health/health-technology-assessments)

# Market authorisation for regulation

Before companies can sell health technologies classified as ‘therapeutic
goods’ in Australia, they must apply to the Therapeutic Goods Administration
for market authorisation. Find out more about the process, how to apply and
where to get help.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Market authorisation for regulation&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/market-authorisation-for-regulation)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/market-authorisation-for-regulation)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Market authorisation for regulation&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/market-authorisation-for-regulation)

Loading...

On this page

## **About market authorisation**

Market authorisation is the approval companies need to supply [therapeutic
goods](https://www.tga.gov.au/what-are-therapeutic-goods), such as medicines
and medical devices, in Australia.

The market authorisation process ensures that new therapeutic goods:

  * are safe
  * perform as intended
  * meet appropriate standards for use in Australia.

The [Therapeutic Goods Administration](https://www.tga.gov.au) (TGA; part of
the Department of Health) is responsible for market authorisations. It
evaluates, assesses and monitors therapeutic goods.

If the TGA approves a new item as safe and effective, it enters the item on
the [Australian Register of Therapeutic
Goods](https://www.tga.gov.au/australian-register-therapeutic-goods) (ARTG).
The ARTG is an electronic register of therapeutic goods that are available for
use in Australia.

Companies can then legally sell the item in Australia.

The TGA’s [regulation essentials](https://www.tga.gov.au/sme-assist/basics-
therapeutic-goods-regulation) has more on how companies can meet their
obligations if they are looking to import, supply, export or manufacture a
therapeutic good.

## **Reasons to apply**

If a company’s product is a [therapeutic good](https://www.tga.gov.au/what-
are-therapeutic-goods), the company must apply for market authorisation before
it can sell the product in Australia.

Products must have market authorisation before they can undergo a [health
technology assessment (HTA) for Australian Government subsidy](/topics/health-
technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/for-subsidy "HTA
for Australian Government subsidy").

The TGA have a series of [interactive decision
tools](https://www.tga.gov.au/sme-assist/interactive-decision-tools) that can
help companies decide if their products are regulated as a therapeutic good or
medical device.

## **Process**

See the TGA for an [overview of applying for market
authorisation](https://www.tga.gov.au/sme-assist/overview-applying-market-
authorisation).

For medicines, vaccines and medical devices, the market authorisation
assessment can be carried out at the same time as the application for
Australian Government subsidy ([parallel
processing](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/publication/factsheets/shared/tga-
pbac-parallel-process)).

## **Next steps**

Once a product is registered on the [ARTG](https://www.tga.gov.au/australian-
register-therapeutic-goods), it may also be eligible for government subsidy
under programs such as the Medicare Benefits Schedule or the Pharmaceutical
Benefits Scheme.

See [HTAs for Australian Government subsidy](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health/health-technology-assessments/for-subsidy "HTA for Australian
Government subsidy").

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) ](/contacts/therapeutic-goods-
administration-tga?language=en)

The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) is Australia's regulatory authority
for therapeutic goods such as medicines, medical devices, and diagnostic
tests. Phone line hours are Monday to Friday 9 am to 5 pm (AEST, excluding
public holidays).

[info@tga.gov.au](mailto:info@tga.gov.au)

Freecall within Australia

[1800 020 653](tel:1800 020 653)

Local

[02 6289 4124](tel:02 6289 4124)

Fax

[02 6203 1605](tel:02 6203 1605)

[Therapeutic Goods Administration](https://www.tga.gov.au/contact-tga)

Last updated:

13 April 2022

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-
digital-health)

  * [About health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about)
  * [What we do](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/what-we-do)
  * [Health technology assessments (HTAs)](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments)
    * [Market authorisation](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/market-authorisation-for-regulation)
    * [HTA for Australian Government subsidy](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/for-subsidy)
    * [How to get involved with HTAs](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/get-involved)
    * [HTA reforms and reviews](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-technology-assessments/reviews)
  * [News](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

