Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Eye health and vision

Illness, injury and ageing can affect your eyesight, so it’s important to keep
your eyes as healthy as possible. Find out what we’re doing to help improve
eye health in Australia and prevent vision loss.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Eye health and vision&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/eye-health-and-vision)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/eye-health-and-vision)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Eye health and vision&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/eye-health-and-vision)

Loading...

###  [ Eye health for Indigenous Australians ](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-
strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)

Learn more about eye health for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

###  [ National Strategic Action Plan ](/resources/publications/national-
strategic-action-plan-for-macular-disease)

Read our action plan to fight macular disease in Australia.

###  [ Addressing trachoma ](/our-work/addressing-trachoma)

We work with affected states and territories to identify, treat and prevent
trachoma.

###  [ Chronic eye conditions ](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-
about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-eye-conditions)

Find out more about what we're doing to help Australians affected by chronic
eye conditions.

## About eye health

In Australia, over 13 million people have one or more chronic (long-term) eye
conditions, according to self-reported data from the Australian Bureau of
Statistics 2017–18 National Health Survey. Common eye conditions that cause
vision loss include [cataracts](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/cataracts),
[macular degeneration](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/macular-degeneration)
and [diabetic retinopathy](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/diabetic-
retinopathy) (damage to the retina from diabetes).

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities:

  * suffer vision impairment and blindness at 3 times the rate of other Australians
  * have high rates of [trachoma](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/trachoma) (an eye infection) in some areas.

Some eye conditions are caused by genes or ageing. But you can reduce your
risk of many eye conditions by [caring for your
eyes](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/eye-care) and leading a [healthy
lifestyle](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/healthy-lifestyle).

It’s also important to get regular [eye
tests](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/eye-tests). Around 90% of all blindness
and vision impairment in Australia is preventable or treatable if detected
early.

Most Australians (90%) say that sight is their most valued sense, so we need
to make sure everyone has access to the eye care they need.

## Latest news

## Latest news

![Free student eye
tests](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/images/news/2022/04/free-
student-eye-tests.jpg?itok=1hi1UVRc)

###  [ Free student eye tests ](/news/free-student-eye-tests?language=en)

30 July 2021

![Medical Research
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/media-medical-
research-image.jpg?itok=2Nh-E1Ya)

###  [ New technology to restore vision ](/news/new-technology-to-restore-
vision?language=en)

20 June 2019

[View more eye health
news](/news?f%5B0%5D=h_related_health_topics%3AEye%20health%20and%20vision&sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC)

## What we’re doing about eye health

We work on policy and programs to improve eye health services and prevent and
treat eye conditions, including the:

  * [National Strategic Action Plan for Macular Disease](/node/7542)
  * [Australian Eye and Ear Health Survey](https://www.westmeadinstitute.org.au/news-and-events/2021/wimr-and-partners-announced-to-conduct-the-austral).

We endorsed the United Nations' General Assembly Resolution [Vision for
Everyone – Accelerating Action to Achieve the Sustainable Development
Goals](https://www.iapb.org/advocate/eye-health-and-sdgs/united-nations-
general-assembly-resolution-on-vision/) in 2021.

We support the World Health Organization’s (WHO) call to eradicate avoidable
blindness. Australia has worked closely with the WHO on the development of
[global
targets](https://apps.who.int/gb/ebwha/pdf_files/WHA74/A74_9Add3-en.pdf) (PDF,
124 KB) for effective coverage of refractive errors and effective coverage of
cataract surgery to be achieved by 2030.

We fund the [Australian Eye and Ear Health
Survey](https://www.westmeadinstitute.org.au/news-and-events/2021/wimr-and-
partners-announced-to-conduct-the-austral), which is currently underway. The
University of Sydney’s Westmead Institute for Medical Research will conduct
eye and ear examinations across metropolitan, regional and remote Australia
during 2022–23. This is a follow-up to the [2016
survey](https://www.vision2020australia.org.au/resources/national-eye-health-
survey-report/).

We also fund research into eye health and eye conditions. This includes
funding through the [National Health and Medical Research
Council](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/grants-funding).

The research helps us to focus our policy and programs on specific needs such
as:

  * [improving eye health in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities](/node/19439)
  * [managing trachoma in Australia](/node/17149)
  * providing eye health services through the [Rural Health Outreach Fund](/node/30669)
  * helping people with diabetes to manage their vision and prevent diabetic retinopathy through the National Diabetes Services Scheme's [KeepSight program](https://www.keepsight.org.au/).

## Programs

We fund the following programs about eye and vision health.

###  [ Addressing trachoma ](/our-work/addressing-trachoma)

Trachoma still occurs in some Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
communities. We work with the affected states and territories to identify,
treat and prevent this condition. We also report to the World Health
Organization’s program to eradicate trachoma across the world.

###  [ Rural Health Outreach Fund ](/our-work/rural-health-outreach-fund)

The Rural Health Outreach Fund (RHOF) supports outreach initiatives that
improve access to medical specialists, general practitioners (GPs) and allied
and other health providers in regional, rural and remote areas of Australia.

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![National eye and tissue sector
framework](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2022/08/eye-and-tissue-
sector-framework_0.png)

### [Eye and Tissue Sector Framework ](/resources/publications/eye-and-tissue-
sector-framework?language=en)

15 August 2022

Strategy or framework

The National Eye and Tissue Sector Framework aims to guide the effective,
evidence-based future operations and management of the Australian eye and
tissue sector.

![Cover image for the GO2814  General Applicant feed
back](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2021/06/macular-disease-
population-groups-at-risk-general-feedback-for-applicants.jpg)

### [Macular disease – Population groups at risk general feedback for
applicants ](/resources/publications/macular-disease-population-groups-at-
risk-general-feedback-for-applicants?language=en)

3 June 2021

Report

This document provides general feedback on the grant opportunity for Macular
Disease – Consumer awareness and education – Population groups at risk for the
information of grant applicants.

![Cover image of Taskforce findings – Ophthalmology Clinical Committee
report](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2021/06/taskforce-findings-
ophthalmology-clinical-committee-report.jpg)

### [Taskforce findings – Ophthalmology Clinical Committee report
](/resources/publications/taskforce-findings-ophthalmology-clinical-committee-
report?language=en)

14 December 2020

Report

This document outlines the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Taskforce’s  
recommendations in response to the Ophthalmology Clinical Committee Report.  

![Taskforce Findings – Optometry Clinical Committee Report
cover](/sites/default/files/images/publications/2020/12/taskforce-findings-
optometry-clinical-committee-report_0.jpg)

### [Taskforce findings – Optometry Clinical Committee report
](/resources/publications/taskforce-findings-optometry-clinical-committee-
report?language=en)

14 December 2020

Report

This document summarises the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Taskforce’s
recommendations in response to the Optometry Clinical Committee report.

[View more eye health
resources](/resources?f%5B0%5D=h_related_health_topics%3AEye%20health%20and%20vision&sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

## Contacts

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Eye health contact ](/contacts/eye-health-contact?language=en)

Contact us for more information about eye health.

[chronicdiseasepolicy@health.gov.au](mailto:chronicdiseasepolicy@health.gov.au)

[Eye health](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/eye-health)

![](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/vision-2020-australia-
logo.jpg?itok=N0q__Va9)

###  [ Vision 2020 Australia ](/contacts/vision-2020-australia?language=en)

Vision 2020 Australia is part of VISION 2020: The Right to Sight, an
initiative of the World Health Organization and the International Agency for
the Prevention of Blindness.

[03 9656 2020](tel:03 9656 2020)

[+61 3 9656 2040](tel:+61 3 9656 2040)

[Vision 2020 Australia](http://www.vision2020australia.org.au/)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

