Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)
  4. [What we’re doing about chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)

[What we’re doing about chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-
were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)

# What we’re doing about chronic eye conditions

Chronic eye conditions are very common in Australia. You may be born with an
eye condition or develop one as you get older. Find out more about chronic eye
conditions and what we are doing to help affected Australians.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we’re doing about chronic eye conditions&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-eye-conditions)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-eye-conditions)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we’re doing about chronic eye conditions&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-eye-conditions)

Loading...

On this page

## What are chronic eye conditions?

Many Australians are living with vision impairment or blindness. Common [eye
health](/topics/eye-health-and-vision "Eye health and vision") conditions
include:

  * uncorrected [refractive error](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/refractive-errors) (this includes near-sightedness, far-sightedness, astigmatism and presbyopia)
  * [cataracts](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/cataracts)
  * [glaucoma](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/glaucoma)
  * [macular degeneration](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/macular-degeneration)
  * [diabetic retinopathy](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/diabetic-retinopathy) (damage to the retina from diabetes)

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities suffer vision impairment and
blindness at 3 times the rate of other Australians.
[Trachoma](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/trachoma) (an eye infection)
affects Indigenous Australians in some areas.

Some eye conditions are genetic or can get worse as you get older. But you can
reduce your risk of many eye conditions by [caring for your
eyes](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/eye-care) and leading a [healthy
lifestyle](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/healthy-lifestyle).

It’s important to get regular [eye tests](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/eye-
tests). Around 90% of all blindness and vision impairment in Australia is
preventable or treatable if caught early.

See healthdirect for more information about [eye
diseases](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/eye-diseases).

## What are we doing about chronic eye conditions?

We are addressing chronic eye conditions nationally, with several programs and
initiatives.

Our [National Strategic Action Plan for Macular
Disease](/resources/publications/national-strategic-action-plan-for-macular-
disease "National Strategic Action Plan for Macular Disease") identifies the
most effective interventions to reduce the burden of macular disease. Macular
disease is the leading cause of severe vision loss and blindness in Australia.
It affects people of all ages.

The [National Diabetes Services Scheme](https://www.ndss.com.au/) helps people
to manage their diabetes, which helps reduce cases of diabetic retinopathy. We
contribute funding to [KeepSight](https://www.keepsight.org.au/about), a
program that reminds people with diabetes to get their eyes checked.

We provide funding for peak bodies [Vision
2020](http://www.vision2020australia.org.au/) and the [Macular Disease
Foundation](https://www.mdfoundation.com.au/), to support their important
work.

See our [eye health topic](/topics/eye-health-and-vision "Eye health and
vision") for details of other programs and initiatives, including:

  * the [National Eye Health Survey 2016](http://www.vision2020australia.org.au/resources/national-eye-health-survey-report)
  * [trachoma surveillance](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-oatsih-pubs-trachreport)
  * [Visiting Optometrists Scheme](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ruralhealth-vos)
  * [Rural Health Outreach Fund](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/budget2011-flexfund-rural13.htm)

We also support people with chronic eye conditions via the:

  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/), which helps pay for patient care
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](http://www.pbs.gov.au/), which helps pay for medicines
  * [National Health and Medical Research Council](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/), which funds research into eye conditions

See more [chronic conditions resources](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-
conditions-resources "Chronic conditions resources").

Last updated:

3 March 2020

Tags:

  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

  * [About chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/about-chronic-conditions)
  * [Chronic conditions in Australia](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-in-australia)
  * [What we’re doing about chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions)
    * [Cardiovascular conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-cardiovascular-conditions)
    * [Chronic eye conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-eye-conditions)
    * [Diabetes](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-diabetes)
    * [Endometriosis](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-endometriosis)
    * [Kidney disease](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-kidney-disease)
    * [Lung and respiratory conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-lung-and-respiratory-conditions)
    * [Musculoskeletal conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-musculoskeletal-conditions)
    * [Neurological conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-neurological-conditions)
    * [Rare diseases](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-rare-diseases)
    * [Other chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-other-chronic-conditions)
  * [Managing chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/managing-chronic-conditions)
  * [News](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/chronic-conditions/chronic-conditions-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

