Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Resources](/resources)
  3. [Committee statements](/resources/committee-statements)

[Committee statements](/resources/committee-statements)

# Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC) statement on
mandatory vaccination of aged care in-home and community aged care workers

A statement from the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC)
on mandatory vaccination of Aged Care In-home and Community Aged Care workers.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Australian Health Protection Principal Committee \(AHPPC\) statement on mandatory vaccination of aged care in-home and community aged care workers&url=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/committee-statements/australian-health-protection-principal-committee-ahppc-statement-on-mandatory-vaccination-of-aged-care-in-home-and-community-aged-care-workers)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/committee-statements/australian-health-protection-principal-committee-ahppc-statement-on-mandatory-vaccination-of-aged-care-in-home-and-community-aged-care-workers)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Australian Health Protection Principal Committee \(AHPPC\) statement on mandatory vaccination of aged care in-home and community aged care workers&body=https://www.health.gov.au/resources/committee-statements/australian-health-protection-principal-committee-ahppc-statement-on-mandatory-vaccination-of-aged-care-in-home-and-community-aged-care-workers)

Loading...

## Currency status

Superseded

AHPPC notes mandating a COVID-19 vaccination for aged care in-home and
community aged care workers providing services to senior Australians provides
an important protection for vulnerable senior Australians during this
emergency.

AHPPC recommends the following national framework for the mandatory COVID-19
vaccination requirement for in-home and community care, be established under
state and territory public health. Further, AHPPC recommends the first dose of
a TGA approved COVID-19 vaccine by 30 November 2021 and a second dose by 31
December 2021. AHPPC also recognises that some jurisdictions may introduce
requirements that come into effect earlier or go beyond arrangements outlined
in this statement. The implementation of these requirements may also differ
between jurisdictions depending on their public health legislation.

## 1\. Scope

The recommended scope for the mandatory COVID-19 vaccination requirements
includes:

  * All Commonwealth funded aged care service providers delivering in-home and community aged care services including: 
    * Home Care Packages
    * Commonwealth Home Support Program (CHSP)
    * National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Flexible Aged Care Program home care services
    * Short-Term Restorative Care
    * Transition Care Program
    * Multi-Purposes Services
  * All full-time, part-time and casual staff employed or engaged by the Commonwealth funded service provider, including sub-contractors and volunteers (proposed definition below).
  * Workers and volunteers in all roles delivered by the Commonwealth funded aged care service provider, including those that provide care and services in and around clients’ homes, in the community and organisational administration.

## 2\. Definition of in-home and community aged care worker for Commonwealth
funded aged care services

The recommended definition of in-home and community aged care workers for
Commonwealth funded aged care services is:

In-home and community aged care worker means a person who is providing
“flexible care”, “home care” or “services” for or on behalf of:

  1. an “approved provider” for whom a flexible care subsidy is payable in respect of services delivered outside of a residential care setting or home care subsidy is payable under the Aged Care Act 1997 (Cth); or
  2. a “service provider” of a Commonwealth-funded aged care service as defined in the Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission Act 2018, delivering services outside of a residential aged care setting.

Where:

  * the “approved provider” definition captures Home Care and non-residential Short-Term Restorative Care, Multi-Purpose Services and Transition Care
  * the “service provider” definition captures the non-residential National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Flexible Aged Care Program and Commonwealth Home Support Program (grant funded services, not under the Aged Care Act).

This definition should be considered in the context of existing Public Health
Orders relating to residential aged care, noting flexible care services and
services under the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Flexible
Aged Care Program can include care delivered in a residential care setting and
care delivered outside of a residential care setting, including in-home and
community aged care services.

## 3\. Mechanism

It is recommended public health orders place an obligation on the individual
worker as well as on the aged care provider:

  * on the worker to inform their employer of their vaccination status.
  * on the aged care provider to ensure that they allow only people who have been vaccinated to provide care or services for clients.
  * on the aged care provider to keep records of having sighted evidence of, or verified, workers’ vaccination status.

## 4\. Exemptions

It is recommended that exemptions are limited and consistent with the national
framework endorsed by AHPPC for residential aged care workers.

  * Medical exemptions will be in line with the Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation ([ATAGI) clinical guidance on COVID-19 vaccine in Australia in 2021](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance "ATAGI clinical guidance for COVID-19 vaccine providers"). 
    * Selected medical practitioners can [notify the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/forms/im011) of an individual who has a vaccine exemption due to medical contraindications or natural immunity which will be displayed on an individual’s [Immunisation History Statement](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-immunisation-register/what-immunisation-history-statement) (IHS).
    * This includes permanent vaccine exemption or temporary vaccine exemption until a specified date due to acute major illness, significant immunocompromise of short duration and recognised overseas vaccination.
  * Temporary exemptions may apply where there is a demonstrated issue with access and supply or where compliance with the mandatory vaccination requirements will undermine the quality of care for clients.
  * Exemptions on religious, political, and personal grounds are not an allowable exemption.

Aged care in-home and community aged care workers will need to provide
evidence to their employer that a medical exemption has been granted.

Read [previous statements](/committees-and-groups/australian-health-
protection-principal-committee-ahppc "Australian Health Protection Principal
Committee \(AHPPC\)") from the AHPPC.

Date published:

10 November 2021

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19](/diseases/covid-19)
  * [Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC)](/committees-and-groups/australian-health-protection-principal-committee-ahppc)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

