Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme)

[Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme)

# Stoma Appliance Scheme for stoma associations

Stoma associations help their members access appliances and products under the
Stoma Appliance Scheme. Read about the role of stoma associations, supplying
products, making claims and reporting requirements.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Stoma Appliance Scheme for stoma associations&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-stoma-associations)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-stoma-associations)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Stoma Appliance Scheme for stoma associations&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-stoma-associations)

Loading...

On this page

## Role of stoma associations

Stoma associations distribute appliances and products listed on the [Stoma
Appliances Scheme Schedule](/resources/apps-and-tools/stoma-appliance-
scheme/schedule "Stoma Appliance Scheme Schedule") to ostomates.

The role of a stoma association is to:

  * set a membership fee each year and offer an instalment payment option for ostomates in financial hardship
  * sign up new members and send new member details to Services Australia
  * help members order their supplies
  * buy stoma appliances and products and supply them to members either via collection or post
  * [seek reimbursement from Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/stoma-appliance-scheme-information-stoma-associations) each month.

[ ![Stoma Appliance Scheme operational guidelines cover
page](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2022/10/stoma-
appliance-scheme-operational-guidelines.png?itok=c3DSpVBf)
](/resources/publications/stoma-appliance-scheme-operational-guidelines)

###  [Stoma Appliance Scheme operational guidelines
](/resources/publications/stoma-appliance-scheme-operational-
guidelines?language=en)

These guidelines explain the practices and procedures that must be followed by
participating stoma associations that provide stoma-related products to their
members under the Australian Government’s subsidised Stoma Appliance Scheme.

## Membership of the scheme

Stoma associations must:

  * be a member of the [Australian Council of Stoma Associations](https://australianstoma.com.au/)
  * have the ability to administer the scheme
  * have a membership base which provides for financial viability
  * provide ostomy support
  * operate from appropriate premises
  * electronically order products, and submit electronic claims in a format approved by [Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/stoma-appliance-scheme-information-for-stoma-associations)
  * meet payment integrity requirements by Services Australia and the Department
  * comply with reporting requirements
  * comply with the guidelines.

## Supplying products

The [Stoma Appliance Scheme Schedule](/resources/apps-and-tools/stoma-
appliance-scheme/schedule "Stoma Appliance Scheme Schedule") lists all of the
stoma products and appliances that are subsidised under the scheme. The online
tool allows the stoma association to search and filter

It is the responsibility of the stoma association to provide ostomates with no
more than the maximum quantity, unless they meet the additional requirements
shown in the operational guidelines.

If stoma association members would like a new product to be added to the
schedule they can ask the product supplier to apply to the [Stoma Product
Assessment Panel](/committees-and-groups/stoma-product-assessment-panel "Stoma
Product Assessment Panel").

Current suppliers are:

  * [3M Australia](https://www.3m.com.au/3M/en_AU/company-au/about-3m/)
  * [Ainscorp](https://www.ainscorp.com.au/contact-us.html)
  * [Angelmed](https://angelmed.com.au/contact/)
  * [Australasian Medical and Scientific](https://www.amsl.com.au/contact-amsl/)
  * [Bosco Medical Australia](https://boscomed.com.au/contact-us)
  * [Calmoseptine Australia](http://calmoseptineointment.com/divisions/au.html)
  * [Coloplast](https://www.coloplast.com.au/about-us/contact/)
  * [ConvaTec](https://www.convatec.com.au/contact-us/)
  * [Dansac Australia](https://www.dansac.com.au/en-au/contactuspageaustralia)
  * [DB Health](https://www.dbhealth.com.au/index.php/contacts)
  * [Ebos Healthcare Group](https://www.eboshealthcare.com.au/contact-us/)
  * [Future Environmental Services (HOS-Stoma)](https://ilcaustralia.org.au/suppliers/12655)
  * [Halyard Australia](https://www.halyardhealth.com.au/about-us/contact-us.aspx)
  * [Hollister Australia](https://www.hollister.com.au/en-au/aucontactuspage)
  * [JD Healthcare Group (Statina Healthcare)](https://www.statina.com.au/pages/contact-us)
  * [New Medical ](https://newmedical.com.au/contact-us-spo2-probes-supplier.htm)
  * [Nice Pak Products](https://www.nicepak.com.au/contact-us/)
  * [Omnigon](https://www.omnigon.com.au/contact/contact-us/)
  * [Smith & Nephew](https://www.smith-nephew.com/australia/healthcare/contact-us/)
  * [Stoma Hernia Support Wear](https://www.facebook.com/pages/category/Medical---Health/Stoma-Hernia-Support-Wear-972479322908525/)
  * [Sutherland Medical](https://www.sutherlandmedical.com.au/contact/)
  * [Wellspect](https://www.wellspect.com.au/about-us/contact).

Last updated:

14 October 2022

Tags:

  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  * [Medical devices](/topics/medical-devices)
  * [Bladder and bowel](/topics/bladder-and-bowel)
  * [Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme)

  * [About the Stoma Appliance Scheme](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/about-the-stoma-appliance-scheme)
  * [For ostomates](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-ostomates)
  * [For stoma associations](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-stoma-associations)
  * [For suppliers](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-for-suppliers)
  * [Resources](/our-work/stoma-appliance-scheme/stoma-appliance-scheme-resources)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

