Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Get help with your hearing logo](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Get help with your hearing

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/hearing-health)
  * [About](/hearing-health/about)
  * [Book a test](/hearing-health/book-a-hearing-check)
  * [Prevention and management](/hearing-health/prevention-and-management)
  * [Supporting others](/hearing-health/supporting-others)
  * [First Nations](/hearing-health/first-nations)
  * [Resources](/hearing-health/resources)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/hearing-health)

[Hearing health]()

# Book a hearing check

If you’re concerned about your hearing, or are experiencing hearing loss, a
test with an audiologist can help determine the type of hearing loss and how
much it has progressed.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Book a hearing check&url=https://www.health.gov.au/hearing-health/book-a-hearing-check)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/hearing-health/book-a-hearing-check)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Book a hearing check&body=https://www.health.gov.au/hearing-health/book-a-hearing-check)

Loading...

## Book a hearing test

A hearing test checks how well you can hear different sounds. It is performed
by an audiometrist or audiologist.

You don’t need a referral from your doctor to book a hearing test.

**You can look for a hearing clinic in your area by using the[healthdirect
Service Finder](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services).**

![Health Direct Service
Finder](/sites/default/files/styles/h_image_16_9_medium/public/2023-05/service_finder_logo.png?h=d08c1a74&itok=fM4W1rIH)

###  [ Find a clinic in your area
](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-health-services)

## Test your hearing online

The Know Your Noise [online hearing
test](https://knowyournoise.nal.gov.au/hearing-test) measures how well you can
hear in a noisy background. It can identify if your hearing is showing signs
of damage.

This online test is not a substitute for a hearing test by a qualified
clinician. If you have concerns about your hearing, you should book a hearing
test with an audiometrist or audiologist.

![Know Your Noise
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_image_16_9_medium/public/2023-04/know-
your-noise-tile_1.png?h=d08c1a74&itok=V8kb5puE)

###  [ Start the online test ](https://knowyournoise.nal.gov.au/hearing-test)

If you experience sudden hearing loss or pain in your ear you should **seek
treatment at an emergency department** or **call 000**.

![Ear
graphic](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2023-05/ear_graphic_white_small.png?itok=R2jlUhpU)

## **Subsidised hearing services**

Our [Hearing Services Program](/our-work/hearing-services-program "Hearing
Services Program") provides eligible people with access to a range of fully
subsidised hearing services, including a hearing assessment. You can check
your eligibility for the program by visiting the [Hearing Services Program
website](/our-work/hearing-services-program "Hearing Services Program").

If you’re not eligible for the program, you may be able to get a Medicare
rebate for some hearing tests. Subsidies may also be available through your
private health insurance.

Last updated:

11 May 2023

Tags:

  * [Ear health and hearing](/topics/ear-health-and-hearing)

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

