Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  3. [Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

[Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

# National first to transform primary care for nurse practitioners

A national first plan for nurse practitioners in Australia’s health and aged
care system has been released to strengthen and enhance multidisciplinary,
person-centred care in primary health.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=National first to transform primary care for nurse practitioners&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/national-first-to-transform-primary-care-for-nurse-practitioners)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/national-first-to-transform-primary-care-for-nurse-practitioners)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=National first to transform primary care for nurse practitioners&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/national-first-to-transform-primary-care-for-nurse-practitioners)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-
mp_1.jpg?itok=uQuoas5f)

**The Hon Ged Kearney MP**  
Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

16 May 2023

Date published:

16 May 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

A national first plan for nurse practitioners in Australia’s health and aged
care system has been released to strengthen and enhance multidisciplinary,
person-centred care in primary health.  
  
Nurse practitioners are highly skilled and have the experience and authority
to provide clinical care for acute and chronic conditions across a lifespan.
However, there has never been a national approach to the best use of this
workforce or supporting it to grow.  
  
Alongside significant support in the 2023–24 Budget, the Nurse Practitioner
Workforce Plan offers a clear vision on how to better use nurse practitioners
to meet the needs of a growing and ageing population.  
  
The Plan sets out actions to increase nurse practitioner services across the
country, increasing community awareness and knowledge of what services nurse
practitioners can provide, and to grow the workforce to reflect the diversity
of the community and improve cultural safety.  
  
It also addresses the significant barriers that have prevented nurse
practitioners from performing all duties that they’re trained to do, which
supports a key commitment of the Albanese Labor Governments to support the
nursing workforce to work to their full scope of practice.  
  
Last week’s Budget implements a number of actions under the Plan, boosting the
affordability and accessibility for people seeking care from a nurse
practitioner.  
  
Medicare rebates for care provided by nurse practitioners will increase by
30%. Nurse practitioners will be eligible to participate in Medicare-
subsidised multidisciplinary team case conferences, offering better support
for people with chronic conditions.  
  
A new $50 million scholarship program will encourage nurses and midwives to
undertake postgraduate study and support registered nurses to become nurse
practitioners.  
  
The Budget also committed to remove the red tape that prevents nurse
practitioners and midwives from providing care to the full extent of their
education and ability. They will be able to independently provide services
under Medicare and prescribe medicines on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(PBS).  
  
Primary care services will be given an incentive to supervise nurse
practitioner students and to support nurse practitioners moving from another
area of advanced practice as a way of encouraging nurse practitioners to
choose careers in primary care.  
  
Enabling nurse practitioners to work to their full potential is a key part of
the Albanese Government’s reforms to strengthen Medicare and meet the health
needs of Australians at every age and stage, and wherever they live.  
  
The Government will continue working with nurse practitioners and the primary
care sector to consider further implementation of the Plan.  
  
View the [National Nurse Practitioner Plan](/resources/publications/nurse-
practitioner-workforce-plan "Nurse Practitioner Workforce Plan").  
  
**Quotes attributable to Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care**  
 ** **Ged Kearney MP****  
  
“Nurse practitioners are so valuable – they’re connected to their communities
in a unique and important way. We want everyone to be able to access quality
care in a primary health setting and supporting our nurse practitioners is a
critical part of that.  
  
“For too long nurse practitioners have faced barriers to providing the care
that they are trained and want to deliver. This Plan reaffirms our commitment
to nurturing and supporting the workforce so they can use their expertise
across aged care, primary care, mental health, private practice and in
hospitals.  
  
“We’re already backing nurse practitioners with a range of measures, from
increasing Medicare rebates and allowing them to provide services that they’re
trained to perform without supervision – making it more affordable and
accessible for everyone to seek their care.  
  
“Supporting nurse practitioners to use all their skills is good for patients,
good for the health and aged care systems, and encourages more talented people
to take up the profession.”

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Nurses and midwives](/topics/nurses-and-midwives)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

