Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  3. [Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

[Minister Kearney's media](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media)

# Game on! 24th World Transplant Games kick off in Perth

The 24th World Transplant Games have kicked off today in Perth, with 1500
athletes and their supporters from almost 50 countries coming together to
compete and celebrate the gift of life.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Game on! 24th World Transplant Games kick off in Perth&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/game-on-24th-world-transplant-games-kick-off-in-perth)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/game-on-24th-world-transplant-games-kick-off-in-perth)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Game on! 24th World Transplant Games kick off in Perth&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp/media/game-on-24th-world-transplant-games-kick-off-in-perth)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-ged-kearney-
mp_1.jpg?itok=uQuoas5f)

**The Hon Ged Kearney MP**  
Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

16 April 2023

Date published:

16 April 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The 24th World Transplant Games have kicked off today in Perth, with 1500
athletes and their supporters from almost 50 countries coming together to
compete and celebrate the gift of life.  
  
Athletes competing at the World Transplant Games are organ or bone marrow
recipients with some events also open to organ donors and donor family
members.  
  
The Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care Ged Kearney attended today as
competition started with DonateLife’s 5km Fun Run.  
  
The Games, hosted by Transplant Australia, will include 17 different sports
including tennis, swimming, athletics, cycling, darts and golf.  
  
The Australian Government has provided funding of $1.6 million to ensure the
success of the games.  
  
The World Transplant Games highlights the benefits of organ and tissue
donation. One organ donor can save the lives of up to seven people and help
many others through eye and tissue donation.  
  
Nearly 17,000 Australians have benefited from an organ transplant since the
DonateLife national program began in 2009, with thousands more helped through
tissue donation.  
  
The Government urges Australians to talk about organ and tissue donation with
their families and importantly register on the DonateLife website at
[www.donatelife.gov.au](https://gedkearney.us19.list-
manage.com/track/click?u=1c6f5f579a3b893243e5df472&id=6775bd2174&e=c47cef4394)
or through their Medicare account.  
  
The 24th World Transplant Games run from 15 – 21 April 2023. This will be the
third time the Games have been staged in Australia, with previous Games in
Sydney in 1997 and the Gold Coast in 2009.  
  
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Sport Anika Wells**  
  
“The World Transplant Games in Perth are a valuable and truly meaningful week-
long sports event showcasing inclusion and the ability to overcome adversity.  
  
“The games also inspire everyone to improve, no matter their ability, health
and wellbeing through regular participation in sport and recreational
activities.  
  
“The World Transplant Games are an important element of Australia’s green and
gold decade as we host several major sports events on the runway to Brisbane
2032.”  
  
**Quotes attributable to Assistant Minister for Health and Aged Care, Ged
Kearney**  
  
“The World Transplant Games brings athletes, their families and supporters
together to celebrate the great gift they’ve been given – the gift of life.  
  
“It is a great privilege to be here for the opening of the Games in beautiful
Perth, to shine a spotlight on the incredibly inspiring participants and to
encourage more people across the world to register as organ and tissue donors.  
  
“We know that most Aussies support donation, but not enough are registered.
Especially during this week, I encourage everyone to register to become a
donor and have the all-important conversation with your loved ones about your
intentions.”

Tags:

  * [Organ and tissue donation](/topics/organ-and-tissue-donation)
  * [Sport](/topics/sport)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Ged Kearney MP](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [The Hon Anika Wells MP](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

