Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)

[About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)

# Medicare costs

Medicare provides Australians with free or subsidised health care. Australians
help to cover its costs through the Medicare levy. We thoroughly assess
medical services and medicines to ensure we only subsidise those that are
clinically effective, cost effective and as safe as possible.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Medicare costs&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/costs)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/costs)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Medicare costs&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about/costs)

Loading...

On this page

## **Keeping Medicare sustainable**

We pay subsidies when you use your Medicare card to access services listed on
the [Medicare Benefits
Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
(MBS) or [Pharmaceutical Benefits
Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/medicine-listing) (PBS). This reduces
their costs to patients so that more people can afford them.

But it would be too burdensome on taxpayers to subsidise every medical
service, prescription drug or health technology. We start with a [health
technology assessment](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/health-
technology-assessments "Health technology assessments") to ensure funding only
goes to services, medicines or technologies that are clinically effective,
cost effective and as safe as possible.

For every medical service or treatment covered under the MBS, we set a
[schedule
fee](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=GN.10.26&qt=noteID).
Medicare sometimes reimburses 100% of that fee, and sometimes a lower
percentage. Health practitioners can charge more than the schedule fee – in
these cases, you pay the difference.

For every medicine subsidised under the PBS, we apply a set co-payment amount.
The government pays the difference between the full cost of the medicine and
the applicable co-payment amount.

From 1 January 2023, in most cases the most you will have to pay for any PBS
medicine is $30 for general patients and $6.80 for people with an eligible
concession card. These amounts typically change on 1 January each year.
Pharmacists have the option to discount the patient co-payment by up to a
maximum of $1.00, should they choose to do so.

[Private health insurance](/topics/private-health-insurance "Private health
insurance") covers many services that Medicare doesn’t cover – like ambulance
services, dental services, physiotherapy, glasses and lenses.

This system helps Australians access the health care they need, while keeping
the cost of Medicare sustainable for taxpayers.

Read more about the [cost of Medicare to taxpayers](/node/40784#the-cost-of-
medicare-to-taxpayers).

## **Hospital costs**

If you are a public patient in hospital, Medicare covers all your medical
expenses.

If you are a private patient in a public hospital, Medicare subsidises the
doctor fees paid by the patient. You pay for hospital accommodation, theatre
fees and doctors’ fees. If you have [private health
insurance](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/private-health-insurance),
you might get some of these costs back, depending on your policy.

If you are a private hospital patient, Medicare covers 75% of the [schedule
fee](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=GN.10.26&qt=noteID)
for your associated medical costs, insurers pay at least 25% and you pay the
rest. Costs above the schedule fee are your responsibility, although private
health insurers may contribute, depending on your policy.

Read more about [out-of-pocket costs if you have private health
insurance](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/private-health-
insurance/what-private-health-insurance-covers/out-of-pocket-
costs#:~:text=Medicare%20pays%2075%25%20of%20the%20MBS%20fee%20for,least%20the%20remaining%2025%25%20of%20the%20MBS%20fee.).

![Medical Costs Finder logo illustration of a face with a magnifying glass
held up to the
eye](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/medical-costs-
finder_0.jpg?itok=HoFOjFRn)

###  [Medical Costs Finder ](/resources/apps-and-tools/medical-costs-
finder?language=en)

The Medical Costs Finder helps you find and understand the typical cost of
common specialist services across Australia.

## **Medicine costs**

We help to keep the cost of medicines down for Australian patients by paying
subsidies for many medicines under the [PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home)
and [Repatriation PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/rpbs) (RPBS).

This means you pay no more than a set co-payment amount for your prescription
medicine. Where the price of the medicine is above the co-payment amount we
pay the rest. The amount you pay depends on whether or not you have a
[concession card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/concession-and-health-
care-cards?context=60091).

You don’t need to claim your subsidy for medicines on the PBS. If the price
you pay is above the co-payment amount, it is already subsidised.

If you need a lot of PBS medicines, once you've paid a [certain
amount](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/what-are-medicare-safety-nets-
thresholds?context=60092) for the year, you may be able to get a larger
subsidy, or your medicines at no cost, through the [PBS safety
net](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/pbs-safety-net-
thresholds?context=22016).

Read more about [how to get help with the cost of
medicines](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicine-and-
medicare?context=60092).

## **Medical services costs**

Under the MBS, Medicare pays 85% of the [schedule
fee](http://www9.health.gov.au/mbs/fullDisplay.cfm?type=note&q=GN.10.26&qt=noteID)
for a specialist and 100% for general practitioners.

If your health practitioner [bulk
bills](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/bulk-billing?context=60092) for
medical services, Medicare pays the cost straight to them (they accept the
schedule fee as full payment), and you don’t pay anything.

To find a health practitioner who bulk bills or a hospital near you, use the
[find a health service tool](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/australian-
health-services).

If your health practitioner charges more than the schedule fee for their
service, you pay the difference.

If your doctor doesn’t bulk bill, you either:

  * pay the full cost, then [claim some of it back](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-claims?context=60092) – some doctors can make that claim for you
  * pay the difference between what your doctor charges and what Medicare covers.

Read about [the ways you can claim your Medicare
rebate](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-claims?context=60092).

When you make your appointment, check how much you will have to pay, if
anything.

If you pay a lot for medical services, once you reach a [certain
amount](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/what-are-medicare-safety-nets-
thresholds?context=60092) for the year, you may be able to get a further
discount through the Medicare safety nets for medical services.

## **Other factors affecting Medicare costs**

You might get extra support to meet the cost of your health care if:

  * [you hold a concession or healthcare card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/concession-and-health-care-cards?context=60091)
  * you have [high healthcare costs](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/what-are-medicare-safety-nets-thresholds?context=60092), and become eligible for further discounts through the [Medicare safety nets](/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets "Medicare safety nets") or [PBS safety net](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/when-you-spend-lot-pbs-medicines?context=22016)
  * you have [private health insurance](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/private-health-insurance-and-medicare?context=60092)
  * your health practitioner [bulk bills](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/bulk-billing?context=60092).

## **The cost of Medicare to taxpayers**

To help cover the cost of Medicare, most taxpayers pay a Medicare levy of 2%
of their taxable income.

People who [earn less than a certain
amount](https://www.ato.gov.au/Individuals/Medicare-and-private-health-
insurance/Medicare-levy/Medicare-levy-reduction-for-low-income-earners/)
either don’t pay the levy or pay a lower percentage.

High-income earners who don’t have an appropriate level of private hospital
insurance also pay a [Medicare levy
surcharge](https://www.ato.gov.au/Individuals/Medicare-and-private-health-
insurance/Medicare-levy-surcharge/) of 1% to 1.5% depending on their income.
This aims to encourage those who can afford it to take out private health
cover to reduce the burden on the public health system.

General taxation revenue covers the rest of the cost of Medicare.

Read more about [Medicare and
tax](https://www.ato.gov.au/Individuals/Medicare-and-private-health-
insurance/Medicare-levy/).

Last updated:

22 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
    * [What Medicare covers](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers)
    * [Costs](/topics/medicare/about/costs)
    * [Safety nets](/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets)
    * [What we do](/topics/medicare/about/what-we-do)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

