Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Electronic prescribing

Electronic prescribing is now widely available. It provides an option for
prescribers and their patients to use an electronic prescription as an
alternative to paper prescriptions. Paper prescriptions are still available.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Electronic prescribing&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/electronic-prescribing)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/electronic-prescribing)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Electronic prescribing&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/electronic-prescribing)

Loading...

On this page

## **About electronic prescribing**

Electronic prescribing allows prescribers and their patients to use an
electronic prescription. It forms part of an [Australian Government budget
measure](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/health-portfolio-
budget-statements-2018-19) to make the PBS more efficient.

Electronic prescriptions are part of the broader digital health and medicines
safety framework. They enable the prescribing, dispensing and claiming of
medicines, without the need for a paper prescription.

Electronic prescribing does not fundamentally change existing prescribing and
dispensing processes. Patients can still choose which pharmacy they attend to
fill their prescription.

While paper prescriptions are still available, prescribers and patients can
choose an electronic prescription to be issued instead.

## **Why electronic prescribing is important**

Electronic prescribing is important because it:

  * provides greater choice for patients
  * makes prescribing and dispensing medicines more efficient
  * may reduce prescribing and dispensing errors
  * supports electronic medication charts in hospitals and residential aged care facilities
  * removes the need for handling and storing a physical paper prescription
  * supports digital health services such as telehealth services to ensure continuity of patient care
  * provides an opportunity to protect community members and health care providers from exposure to infectious diseases (for example, COVID-19)
  * maintains patient privacy and integrity of personal information.

## **Goals of the initiative**

Electronic prescribing aims to provide convenience and choice to patients
while improving PBS efficiency, compliance and drug safety.

## **Meeting our goals**

We have implemented electronic prescribing. The Australian Government has
changed legislation to make electronic prescribing of PBS medicines legal.
States and territories have made changes to their legal frameworks to allow
for electronic prescriptions in their jurisdiction.

We are continuing to work with the [Australian Digital Health
Agency](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/) to deliver the [technical
framework](https://developer.digitalhealth.gov.au/resources/articles/electronic-
prescribing) to help clinical software systems create, collect and store
electronic prescriptions. This technical framework details the requirements
for clinical software to:

  * maintain patient choice of prescriber and pharmacy for supply of their medicines
  * adhere to privacy and security principles
  * ensure alignment with legislation.

Services Australia has also [changed the PBS claim-for-payment
system](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/pbs-pharmacists/claiming/claiming-online-pbs-
medicines) to support the new arrangements.

## **Timelines**

The rollout of electronic prescribing is nearing completion. Clinical software
that can create, collect and store an electronic prescription is increasingly
available across Australia.

The Australian Government encourages community pharmacies and prescribers to
learn about using electronic prescriptions. This includes getting software
ready and participating in training opportunities the [Australian Digital
Health Agency](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/get-started-with-digital-
health/electronic-prescriptions), peak bodies and software providers are
delivering.

See [Electronic prescriptions](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/get-started-
with-digital-health/electronic-prescriptions) at the Australian Digital Health
Agency site.

## **PBS regulatory framework**

The regulatory framework to allow for electronic prescribing under the PBS has
several components.

Changes to the [National Health (Pharmaceutical Benefits) Regulations
2017](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2019C00923) allow the use of an
electronic prescription under the PBS.

Four instruments under these regulations support the use of electronic
prescriptions, including electronic prescriptions that are medication charts.

  * The [Form of the Electronic Prescription 2019](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/form-of-the-electronic-prescription-2019) defines the information fields required when a PBS prescriber writes an electronic prescription.
  * The [Electronic Prescriptions Information Technology Requirements 2019](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/electronic-prescriptions-information-technology-requirements-instrument-2019) details system requirements for participating in electronic prescribing. 
  * The Form of the PBS Hospital Medication Chart details requirements for paper and electronic forms of medication charts for use in hospitals.
  * The Form of the National Residential Medication Chart details requirements for paper and electronic forms of medication charts for use in residential care facilities.

The following policies guide electronic prescribing:

  * [Electronic Prescribing Active Script List (ASL) Privacy Framework](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/electronic-prescribing-active-script-list-privacy-framework)
  * [Electronic Prescriptions Security and Access Policy](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/electronic-prescriptions-security-and-access-policy)
  * [Electronic Prescriptions Privacy Policy](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/electronic-prescriptions-privacy-policy)
  * [Electronic Prescriptions Data Usage Policy](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/electronic-prescriptions-data-usage-policy)
  * [PBS hospital medication chart](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-work/medication-safety/medication-charts/national-standard-medication-charts/pbs-hospital-medication-chart)

  * [National residential medication chart](https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-work/medication-safety/national-residential-medication-chart)

For further information regarding the Commonwealth Privacy requirements, see
the [Electronic Prescribing Privacy Impact Assessment Public
Summary](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/summary-of-privacy-
impact-assessment-on-the-electronic-prescribing-project).

Further information about the Department of Health’s privacy policy can be
found [online](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy).

Changes to the [National Health (Claims and under co-payment data) Rules
2012](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/F2020C00018) allow PBS claims from
electronic prescriptions. The rules state what information approved suppliers
must provide about supplying PBS medicines from electronic prescriptions.

## **Information for prescribers and dispensers**

### Writing a prescription

A prescriber can write prescriptions for dispensing by pharmacists in the
following 2 ways:

  1. Use standard prescription paper forms. 
  2. Write prescriptions electronically – you will need to update your clinical information system to do this. Read about [setting up electronic prescribing](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/get-started-with-digital-health/electronic-prescriptions/for-prescribers), or you can contact your software provider directly. 

All prescriptions must follow certain rules. Read more on [rules for
prescribing PBS medicines](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/healthpro/explanatory-
notes/section1/Section_1_2_Explanatory_Notes) and [information for
pharmacists](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/healthpro/for-pharmacists). You must
continue to adhere to the [National Health Act
1953](https://aus01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.legislation.gov.au%2FDetails%2FC2020C00062&data=02%7C01%7CGaby.Suchard%40digitalhealth.gov.au%7Ce8fc0c035d1142d4167908d7f647276a%7C49c6971ed0164e1ab04195533ede53a1%7C0%7C0%7C637248657792187740&sdata=kMTJWrt9fX981P2%2FVm6bLrQikllNrPpoAlt9hyS%2BMuE%3D&reserved=0)
and relevant state or territory regulations when prescribing and supplying
medicines.

### **Benefits of using electronic prescribing**

Prescribers can create electronic prescriptions in their software during
consultations, where their software is conformant. A unique electronic token
(in the form of a QR code) is created and sent to the patient as an SMS or
email. The token is a key that unlocks the electronic prescription. Patients
can provide the token to the pharmacist to enable dispense and supply of the
medicines.

There are many benefits to electronic prescribing, including enabling
prescribers and pharmacists to assist their patients in a way that was not
previously possible.

For example, prescribers can print evidence of an electronic prescription in
the form of a token and fax/email to a pharmacy with the patient's consent. As
long as the token is legible, pharmacists can scan it and safely dispense the
electronic prescription.

As the electronic prescription is linked to the token, it can only be
downloaded once. Therefore, the risk of safety and quality and fraudulent
activity is greatly reduced.

Another advantage to electronic prescribing is the Active Script List (ASL).

The ASL is a token management system that provides a list of the patient’s
active prescriptions. It has the ability to display all current active
eligible barcoded paper and electronic prescriptions any time a
prescriber/pharmacist accesses the patient's ASL. Patients are able to elect
which prescriptions are sent to their ASL and which prescribers and pharmacist
can view their ASL.

From this list, the pharmacist can dispense electronic prescriptions,
including electronic prescriptions that were issued before the ASL was
registered where the script has repeats remaining to be filled. Patients on
multiple medicines are encouraged to talk to their pharmacist about using an
ASL.

Find out more about the [Active Script
List](https://www.digitalhealth.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/electronic-
prescriptions).

### **I** **mage-based prescribing**

Arrangements for image-based prescribing in hospitals outlined in the National
Health (COVID-19 Supply of Pharmaceutical Benefits) Special Arrangement 2020
(the Special Arrangement) ends on 31 March 2023. However, the requirement for
a patient to provide written acknowledgment (e.g. a signature) for
prescriptions will continue to not be enforced under the Special Arrangement
until **31 March 2024**.

Electronic prescribing is now widely available in Australia and provides an
option for supporting telehealth consultations and enabling supply of
medicines. Other prescribing options, such as urgent supply arrangements which
existed prior to the COVID-19 pandemic will continue.

Factsheets on arrangements for supply of medicines to support telehealth
patients in the community setting are available for
[prescribers](/resources/publications/covid-19-national-health-plan-
prescriptions-via-telehealth-a-guide-for-prescribers "COVID-19 National Health
Plan – prescriptions via telehealth – a guide for prescribers") and
[pharmacists](/resources/publications/covid-19-national-health-plan-
prescriptions-via-telehealth-a-guide-for-pharmacists "COVID-19 National Health
Plan – prescriptions via telehealth – a guide for pharmacists").

Although the Special Arrangement ends on 31 March 2023, residential care
services can continue using copies of medication charts for PBS prescribing.
This is allowed by section 45(2) of the National Health (Pharmaceutical
Benefits) Regulations 2017 which specifies that an approved supplier may
supply a pharmaceutical benefit on the basis of a medication chart
prescription only if the supplier has seen a medication chart or a copy of the
medication chart that includes all prescribing information requirements.

A person does not need to provide a written acknowledgement that they have
received a benefit (by signature) on the prescription (including a repeat
authorisation or deferred supply) if it is not practical to do so, and the
supplier is not required to certify the date of supply and the reason it was
not practical to do so.

Signature requirements outlined within the Special Arrangement will continue
until **31 March 2024**.

From 1 April 2023, Safety Net Prescription Record Forms (PRFs), whether
handwritten or not, must be signed by pharmacists. PRFs not signed by the
pharmacist after this date will not be accepted and there will be no
transition period after this provision ceases in the Special Arrangement 31
March 2023. The signature requirements for PRFs will revert to the previous
requirements set out within the National Health Act 1953.

Prescriptions written before 31 March 2023 with existing repeats that were
dispensed under image-based hospital prescribing will continue to be honoured
after 31 March 2023. These must continue to be retained by the pharmacist for
subsequent supply of the medicine, until the prescription runs out or expires.

While image-based prescribing is ending, healthcare providers also continue to
have utilisation of options that existed prior to the COVID-19 pandemic to
enable remote support to patients. For example, if a patient prefers to
receive their paper-based prescription following a telehealth or telephone
attendance, they, or someone known to them, may still collect their
prescription in person or receive it by post and arrange supply of medicines
separately in line with existing processes.

## **State and territory requirements**

### **Australian Capital Territory**

In the Australian Capital Territory, the [Medicines, Poisons and Therapeutic
Goods Act 2008](https://www.legislation.act.gov.au/a/2008-26) enables
electronic prescribing.

Read more about [medicines management in the ACT during
COVID-19](https://www.health.act.gov.au/health-professionals/pharmaceutical-
services/medicines-management-during-covid-19).

### **New South Wales**

In New South Wales, an
[exemption](https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/pharmaceutical/Pages/electronic-
prescribing.aspx) from the New South Wales Poisons and Therapeutic Goods
Regulation enables electronic prescribing. See more information for:

  * [pharmacists](https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/pharmaceutical/Pages/electronic-prescribing.aspx#bookmark4)
  * [prescribers](https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/pharmaceutical/Pages/electronic-prescribing.aspx#bookmark3).

### **Northern Territory**

In the Northern Territory the [Electronic Transactions (Northern Territory)
Act 2000](https://legislation.nt.gov.au/en/Bills/Electronic-Transactions-
Northern-Territory-Bill-2000?format=assented) enables electronic prescribing.
Read about [medicines and poisons control in the Northern
Territory](https://health.nt.gov.au/professionals/medicines-and-poisons-
control2/medicines-and-poisons-control).

### **Queensland**

In Queensland, the [Medicines and Poisons Act
2019](https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce/current/act-2019-026)
and supporting [Medicines and Poisons (Medicines) Regulation
2021](https://www.legislation.qld.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce/current/sl-2021-0140)
enables systems that meet the conditions specified in the [Departmental
Standard – Requirements for an electronic prescription management system
(Version
1)](https://www.health.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0028/1108936/ds-
electronic-prescription-management-system.pdf), to electronically prepare,
transfer, retrieve and record prescription information (electronic
prescription) for a medicine, and to record dispensing activities.

### **South Australia**

In South Australia, the [Controlled Substances (Poisons) Regulations
2011](https://www.legislation.sa.gov.au/LZ/C/R/Controlled%20Substances%20\(Poisons\)%20Regulations%202011.aspx)
enable electronic prescriptions. Read [information for consumers, health
professionals and software
vendors](https://www.sahealth.sa.gov.au/wps/wcm/connect/public+content/sa+health+internet/clinical+resources/clinical+programs+and+practice+guidelines/medicines+and+drugs/medicines+and+drugs).

### **Tasmania**

In Tasmania, Regulations 21 and 46 of the [Poisons Regulations
2018](https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/html/inforce/current/sr-2018-079)
enable electronic prescriptions, where approved by the Tasmanian Secretary for
Health. The Secretary for Health must approve any software system used in
Tasmania to prescribe, transmit, or dispense electronic prescriptions. Read
about [electronic prescribing in
Tasmania](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/health-topics/medicines-and-poisons-
regulation/medicines-and-poisons-regulation-information-health-
professionals/electronically-transmitted-prescriptions).

### **Victoria**

Read about [electronic prescribing in
Victoria](https://www.health.vic.gov.au/drugs-and-poisons/recent-
updates#electronic-prescribing).

### **Western Australia**

In Western Australia, the [Medicines and Poisons Regulations
2016](https://www.legislation.wa.gov.au/legislation/statutes.nsf/main_mrtitle_13861_homepage.html)
enable electronic prescribing. The Western Australian Department of Health
must approve each product that is part of an electronic prescribing system.
Read about [electronic prescribing in Western
Australia](https://ww2.health.wa.gov.au/Articles/A_E/Electronic-Prescribing-
Systems).

## **Learn more**

See [Claiming online for PBS
medicines](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/pbs-pharmacists/claiming/claiming-online-pbs-
medicines) for more information on the changes made to the PBS claim-for-
payment system.

Read the [summary of COVID-19 regulatory
changes](https://www.psa.org.au/coronavirus/regulatory-changes/) impacting
pharmacy across Australia.

## **Contacts**

Contact the Department of Health with questions about the legislative
framework for electronic prescribing.

Contact the Australian Digital Health Agency with questions about the
electronic prescribing technical framework.

Contact Services Australia with questions about the:

  * PBS or Repatriation Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits (RPBS) claim systems
  * Healthcare identifiers service.

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Electronic prescribing contact ](/contacts/electronic-prescribing-
contact?language=en)

Contact us with questions about the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)
legislative framework for electronic prescribing.

[ePrescribing@health.gov.au](mailto:ePrescribing@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

31 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Health technologies and digital health](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health)
  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

