Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Assistant Minister McBride – doorstop in Gordonvale – 13 April 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's doorstop on what the
Australian Government is doing to address the health workforce shortage in
rural and regional areas and HELP debt.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Assistant Minister McBride – doorstop in Gordonvale – 13 April 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-doorstop-in-gordonvale-13-april-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-doorstop-in-gordonvale-13-april-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Assistant Minister McBride – doorstop in Gordonvale – 13 April 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-doorstop-in-gordonvale-13-april-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

13 April 2023

Date published:

14 April 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

I'm so pleased to be here in Far North Queensland today and visiting this
practice in Gordonvale. Meeting with general practitioners like Dr. Lisa
Fraser, who are doing such vital work in your community, keeping people safe
and providing really essential health care. What I'm determined to do, working
with Minister Butler is to make sure that every Australian no matter where
they live, gets access to quality, affordable health care close to home. We
know this is a really big challenge. And we know that the further you live
outside of the big city, the worse your health outcomes are likely to be. As a
pharmacist myself, that practiced in a regional community, I've seen firsthand
the challenges that general practitioners and allied healthcare workers face
in communities like this, I understand the unique challenges. But what makes
me optimistic is seeing practices like the one that I've just visited in
Gordonvale. And seeing doctors like Dr. Lisa Fraser, providing such vital,
essential care to your community.

**JOURNALIST**

Obviously, the biggest issue is getting GPs and doctors here and up to
Innisfail and Mareeba. We have about three GPs here who are probably close to
retirement, what is the federal government doing to entice more doctors to
come to regional areas?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

So we know that in Australia today, we graduate about 3000 doctors a year. Of
that 3000, about 20 percent express interest in working in general practice,
but of those only 2 in 10, at the moment, are working outside of the major
metros. This is something that's happened over decades and this is something
that will take time to turn around. What the federal government did straight
after the election was stand up the Strengthen Medicare Taskforce where $750
million has been set aside to look at investing in primary care to look at
what is going to improve affordability. That is being worked through the
budget process at the moment. There are some specific measures that we're
trying to do, to work with enticing young doctors who are open to working in
rural communities. So one of them is wiping their HELP debt. So this will mean
that from the first of January this year, if you're a doctor who's graduated,
and is working in a rural community, that your HELP debt will be wiped. We
know talking to the Australian Medical Students Association, that this is
something that will be a significant encouragement to doctors who are open to
working in rural and remote communities to making that step. We're also
working with another initiative, which is called the single employer model.
All of our junior doctors do their training in our public health systems and
in our hospitals and we know another barrier to them working in primary care
as general practitioners is losing those entitlements and not having that
portability of entitlements. So with a single employee model, it will mean
they'll be able to carry that over to general practice in the community. These
are just two measures that we've done, another one they're working on is
innovative models of care, where there's grant funding to look at particular
models to address challenges, unique challenges, particularly in rural and
remote communities, and looking at how we might be able to expand or scale
those. So these are just some examples of what we're trying to do to turn
around what is a big challenge and a growing problem.

**JOURNALIST**

HELP debt, it's only been a few months, I guess. Has it been a strong move?
Have we seen an increase?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

Well talking to the Australian Medical Students Association, they believe that
it will be a big encouragement. The junior doctors were open to working in
rural and remote communities to be able to afford to do that. The department's
own figures have estimated that about 800 doctors are likely to benefit from
that. But we'll be really keen to see the uptake and to look at how we might
be able to refine this so that more junior doctors take up this opportunity to
work in the most rural and remote communities.

**JOURNALIST**

What were some of the other issues that were raised today?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER**

So we know that from listening to GPs, from the outer suburbs to the most
rural and remote parts of Australia, that there are particular challenges
running a general practice at the moment. You've mentioned some of the costs,
those indirect costs that practices face, in being able to provide the right
kind of care to patients. The other thing that they've mentioned is the acuity
of patients, that they'll be seeing patients now who are much more complex.
Lisa was talking about ambulances stopping here on their way to the hospital
and saying, 'can you see this patient?' So there's the acuity and complexity
of patient care. There's a cost of providing that care and there's the
challenges of an aging population and being able to provide the right kind of
care that people need particularly in aged care homes as well. Thank you.

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

