Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Health data and medical research](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research)

[Health data and medical research](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research)

# Our data strategy

We want to make sure medical researchers can get health data without
compromising patient privacy. Find out more about our data strategy.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Our data strategy&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/data-strategy)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/data-strategy)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Our data strategy&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/data-strategy)

Loading...

On this page

## Why we have a data strategy

We want to help researchers access data for research that delivers better
health, aged care and wellbeing for all Australians. The [Department of Health
and Aged Care Data Strategy 2022–25](/resources/publications/department-of-
health-and-aged-care-data-strategy-2022-25 "Department of Health and Aged Care
Data Strategy 2022–25") is all about harnessing the power of data for this
purpose.

### Releasing data but protecting privacy

Sharing and releasing data helps us all get better value out of data. We make
data available safely and ethically. Our aim is to:

  * improve public benefit from increased data use 

  * release information in a timely manner 

  * release relevant information 

  * protect individual privacy 

  * approve, extract and release data in an efficient manner. 

Some health data is provided by people who make claims to the Australian
Government for payment of health services. The Australian Government has a
legal responsibility to keep their personal information secure and private.

Learn more about [health and medical research and
privacy](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/the-privacy-act/health-and-medical-
research) on the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner website.

### When ethical approval is needed

Researchers require ethics review from their institution for any research
involving humans or access to personal information. Learn more from the
[National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human
Research](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/about-us/publications/national-statement-
ethical-conduct-human-research-2007-updated-2018).

### Privacy policies

We have a [website privacy policy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy
"Website privacy policy"). It explains how we:

  * handle your personal information (including your email address) 

  * use cookies 

  * record website visits 

  * link to other websites. 

We also have a [privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy
"Privacy policy") that covers how our department complies with the national
Privacy Act 1988.

If we collect information that might be sensitive or personally identifiable,
we have to provide a collection notice or privacy notice. Learn more via our
[website privacy policy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy "Website
privacy policy").

If you are researching a personal health condition, visit our [health
topics](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics) or the
[healthdirect](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/) website. You can also [manage
your health care information](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-
self-service?context=60092#a3) online on the [Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-self-
service?context=60092) website.

If you want information about clinical trials that are underway, see the
[Australian Clinical Trials
website](https://www.australianclinicaltrials.gov.au/).

## Legislation governs our data strategy

National legislation governs our data policy to ensure confidentiality and
privacy of information. These are:

  * [National Health Act 1953](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2023C00012)

  * [Health Insurance Act 1973](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00348)

  * [Privacy Act 1988](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00361)

  * [Freedom of Information Act 1982](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Latest/C2022C00293). 

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Data access and release contact ](/contacts/data-access-and-release-
contact?language=en)

Researchers who want access to health program and performance data can contact
us about this.

Data access and release contact

[data.release@health.gov.au](mailto:data.release@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

28 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Health data and medical research](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Health data and medical research](/topics/health-data-and-medical-
research)

  * [About health and medical research](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/about-health-and-medical-research)
  * [About health data](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/about-health-data)
  * [What we do](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/what-we-do)
  * [Data collections](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/our-data-collections)
  * [Data strategy](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/data-strategy)
  * [Other health research and data](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/other-data-we-use)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/initiatives-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/resources)
  * [News](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/news)
  * [Contacts](/topics/health-data-and-medical-research/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

