Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)

[Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)

# What we're doing for medical doctors and specialists

Our policies, strategies and programs support medical doctors and specialists
to work in regional, rural and remote locations. We also support Australian
doctors to train overseas, and overseas-trained doctors to practise in
Australia.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we're doing for medical doctors and specialists &url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we're doing for medical doctors and specialists &body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do)

Loading...

On this page

## **Policies and strategies**

We are developing a [National Medical Workforce Strategy](/our-work/national-
medical-workforce-strategy-2021-2031 "National Medical Workforce Strategy
2021–2031") to guide long-term medical workforce planning across all levels of
government. This 10-year strategy will help ensure we have the right people
with the right skills where we need them, and that we give them the support
they need.

Our [Stronger Rural Health
Strategy](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/stronger-
rural-health-strategy-factsheets) outlines a package of initiatives aiming to
build a sustainable, high-quality health workforce that meets the needs of all
communities.

## **Programs supporting medical doctors and specialists**

We fund programs and initiatives to support medical doctors and specialists
that aim to:

  * strengthen workforce planning
  * ensure we have a highly capable and qualified workforce
  * address workforce shortages and improve access to health services, especially in regional, rural and remote areas
  * support the [Indigenous health workforce](/topics/indigenous-health-workforce "Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health workforce") to provide Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people with culturally safe care.

Some of these programs include the:

  * [Workforce Incentive Program (WIP)](/our-work/workforce-incentive-program "Workforce Incentive Program"), which improves access to quality health care in regional, rural and remote areas through financial incentives
  * [Specialist Training Program](/our-work/specialist-training-program "Specialist Training Program"), which supports training positions in regional, rural and remote areas, and in private facilities, to improve the skills and distribution of the specialist workforce
  * [Non-vocationally Registered Fellowship Support Program](/our-work/non-VR-FSP "Non-vocationally Registered Fellowship Support Program \(Non-VR FSP\)"), which provides doctors with financial support to gain their fellowship.

See a full list of our [programs for doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-
and-specialists/programs "Medical doctors and specialists programs and
initiatives").

## **Rural and regional medical doctors and specialists**

We support rural and regional medical practitioners and specialists in many
ways:

  * The [National Rural Generalist Pathway](/our-work/national-rural-generalist-pathway "National Rural Generalist Pathway") recognises the extra requirements and skills of rural generalists. It supports them to meet the diverse health needs of regional, rural and remote Australians.
  * The [Rural Locum Assistance Program](http://www.rurallap.com.au/) supports and recruits locums to enable, rural professionals to take leave and organisations to backfill them, ensuring there are no shortfalls in staffing.
  * The [Rural Health Workforce Support Activity](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/work-pr-rrgpp) funds [Rural Workforce Agencies](https://www.health.gov.au/contacts/rural-health-workforce-australia-rhwa) to attract, recruit and support health professionals in rural and remote communities.
  * The [Rural Health Multidisciplinary Training Program](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/rural-health-multidisciplinary-training) supports health students to undertake rural training.
  * The John Flynn Prevocational Doctor Program encourages prevocational doctors to move out of metropolitan hospitals, and fosters interest in a career working in rural general practice.

## **Support to study specialised medicine overseas**

We support practitioners who want to study specialties in the USA on a J1
visa. The J1 visa is a temporary, non-immigrant visa specifically for
participants of the Exchange Visitor Sponsorship Program.

The [Educational Commission for Foreign Medical
Graduates](http://www.ecfmg.org/evsp/index.html) administers the program.

To participate in the program, you need a statement of need to confirm that:

  * Australia needs the specialty you propose to study
  * you will return to Australia after completing your training.

### **Apply for a statement of need**

Once you have confirmed your study with an institution in the USA, [email
us](mailto:J1Visa@health.gov.au) at least 30 days before your start date,
with:

  * your full name
  * the speciality of study (and sub-specialty, if applicable)
  * the name and address of the university or hospital you will be studying at
  * the dates you start and finish your study
  * a statement confirming that you intend to return to Australia when your studies are complete to practise your specialty
  * evidence of the offer of a training placement, including the start and end dates (such as a copy of the letter or email of offer)
  * current or former registration as a medical practitioner in Australia.

## **International medical doctors and specialists**

About 7 million people, or 29% of Australia’s population, live in rural and
remote areas, and they can face long wait times or distances to access health
care.

International medical doctors and specialists help provide services where
there is insufficient domestic workforce.

To access Medicare benefits, these doctors and specialists must work in
regional, rural and remote areas and [meet certain eligibility
requirements](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry/doctors-and-
specialists/19ab "Section 19AB restricted doctors and access to Medicare").

For more information about working as a doctor in Australia:

  * see [DoctorConnect](/our-work/doctorconnect "DoctorConnect")
  * contact [Rural Health Workforce Australia](http://www.rhwa.org.au/site/index.cfm?display=558574&leca=1066&did=25614333)
  * contact your local [Rural Workforce Agency](/contacts/rural-health-workforce-australia-rhwa-contact "Rural Health Workforce Australia \(RHWA\) contact").

## **Who we work with**

We work with multiple stakeholders involved in Australia’s medical workforce,
including:

  * state and territory governments
  * medical regulators
  * [specialist medical colleges](/node/27996#medical-doctor-and-specialist-organisations)
  * medical schools
  * training providers
  * private sector organisations
  * professional associations
  * industrial bodies
  * regional planning bodies
  * health consumers.

Together these organisations influence the medical workforce in several
important ways, such as:

  * determining the number of places for students and specialist training
  * selecting medical students and junior doctors into education and training
  * planning the content, educational approach and location of training
  * accrediting training settings and assessing standards
  * setting payments, incentives and reward systems
  * overseeing the registration and regulation of medical practice
  * setting working conditions
  * providing ongoing professional development and support
  * providing professional leadership and culturally safe practice.

Last updated:

28 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists)

  * [About medical doctors and specialists](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/about)
  * [Doctors and specialists in Australia](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/in-australia)
  * [What we're doing](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/what-we-do)
  * [Education and support](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/education-and-support)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/doctors-and-specialists/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

