Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)

[Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-
care)

# Eye and vision health for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people

Healthy eyes and good vision help kids learn at school, increase independence
and increase job opportunities. Our policies and programs aim to prevent,
treat and monitor eye disease in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Eye and vision health for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Eye and vision health for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)

Loading...

On this page

## Preventing eye disease

Eye conditions include cataracts, diabetic retinopathy and trachoma. These can
lead to loss of vision, which affects quality of life and reduces
independence.

We fund initiatives to help prevent and treat eye disease.

## Eye health support

### Eye health equipment

This initiative has provided more than 160 retinal cameras and associated
training to:

  * prioritised Aboriginal Medical Services
  * health services in mostly rural and remote areas who have a high proportion of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander patients. 

These cameras help diagnose diabetic retinopathy, which can lead to vision
loss.

The initiative is also rolling out up to 110 slit lamps.

### Eye health promotion

We fund the [Indigenous Eye Health Unit](https://mspgh.unimelb.edu.au/centres-
institutes/centre-for-health-equity/research-group/ieh) at University of
Melbourne to carry out activities that help prevent trachoma.

### Addressing trachoma

We work with the affected states and territories to identify, treat and
prevent trachoma. We also report to the World Health Organization’s program to
eradicate trachoma across the world.

Read about [how we're addressing trachoma](/our-work/addressing-trachoma
"Addressing trachoma").

## Outreach services

Many people who live in rural, remote and some urban areas depend on outreach
health services – where health professionals travel from other areas to
provide care.

We support these health professionals by covering some costs – like travel and
accommodation – so that people can access eye care services, regardless of
where they live.

We mostly fund one organisation in each state and territory to manage and
deliver these outreach programs:

  * NSW – [NSW Rural Doctors Network](http://www.nswrdn.com.au/site/index.cfm)
  * NT – [NT Department of Health](https://health.nt.gov.au/) (and the [NT Primary Health Network](https://www.ntphn.org.au/) for the Medical Outreach Indigenous Chronic Disease Program)
  * Qld – [CheckUp Australia](http://www.checkup.org.au/)
  * SA – [Rural Doctors Workforce Agency](https://www.ruraldoc.com.au/)
  * Tas – [Department of Health and Human Services](https://www.health.tas.gov.au/) (and [Rural Health Tasmania](http://www.ruralhealthtas.com.au/) for the Eye and Ear Surgical Support Program)
  * Vic – [Rural Workforce Agency Victoria](https://www.rwav.com.au/)
  * WA – [Rural Health West](http://www.ruralhealthwest.com.au/).

### Visiting Optometrists Scheme

The Visiting Optometrists Scheme supports optometrists to deliver outreach
optometric services to remote and very remote locations.

The scheme reimburses expenses like:

  * travel, accommodation and meals
  * facility fees and administrative support at the outreach location
  * locum support at the home practice
  * lease and transport of equipment.

Overall, services provided through this scheme [more than
tripled](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/indigenous-australians/indigenous-
eye-health-measures-2020/summary) between 2010–11 and 2018–19.

For more information, contact your state or territory's funded organisation.

### Eye Surgical Support Program

The Eye Surgical Support Program provides more timely and convenient surgery
for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people who live in rural and remote
areas.

It funds the travel and accommodation costs for:

  * health professionals who provide visiting surgical services, so that they can get as close as possible to rural and remote patients’ homes
  * patients and carers who need to travel to access surgery.

For more information, contact your state or territory's funded organisation.

### Learn more about outreach services

[ ![Cover image for outreach programs delivery
standards](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/publications/2021/06/outreach-
programs-service-delivery-standards.jpg?itok=gAfwtriV)
](/resources/publications/outreach-programs-service-delivery-standards)

###  [Outreach Programs Service Delivery Standards
](/resources/publications/outreach-programs-service-delivery-
standards?language=en)

These standards guide fundholders on their eligibility, responsibilities and
the delivery of efficient and effective services.

Last updated:

12 May 2022

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Eye health and vision](/topics/eye-health-and-vision)
  * [Indigenous Australians' Health Programme ](/our-work/indigenous-australians-health-programme)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-
torres-strait-islander-health)

  * [Status and determinants of health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/status-and-determinants)
  * [How we support health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/how-we-support-health)
  * [Who we work with](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/who-we-work-with-to-support-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)
  * [Primary care](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care)
    * [Annual health checks](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/annual-health-checks)
    * [Ear health and hearing support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/ear-health-and-hearing-support)
    * [Eye health and vision support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/eye-health-and-vision-support)
    * [Chronic disease support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/chronic-disease-support)
    * [Medicare and medicines](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/medicare-and-medicines)
    * [Evaluations](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/primary-care/evaluations)
  * [Lifestyle and family health support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/lifestyle-and-family-health-support)
  * [Aged care support](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/aged-care-support)
  * [Reporting](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/reporting)
  * [Research](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/research)
  * [News](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/news)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [Resources](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

