Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)
  3. [Website privacy policy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

[Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

# Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – patients

Find out how we manage any personal information we collect about you when you
apply for funding under the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – patients&url=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-patients)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-patients)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – patients&body=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-patients)

Loading...

On this page

## When this privacy notice applies

This privacy notice applies when you apply for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism
program using [Form A](/resources/publications/application-form-a-for-
conditions-group-1-inborn-errors-of-metabolism "Application Form A for
Conditions Group 1 – Inborn Errors of Metabolism"), [Form
B](/resources/publications/application-form-b-for-conditions-other-than-
group-1-inborn-errors-of-metabolism "Application Form B for Conditions other
than Group 1 – Inborn Errors of Metabolism") or [Form
C](/resources/publications/application-form-c-change-of-details-inborn-errors-
of-metabolism "Application Form C – Change of details – Inborn Errors of
Metabolism").

This notice explains how we (the Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care) manage personal information consistent with our obligations
under the [Privacy Act
1988](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2004A03712) and the [Australian
Privacy Principles](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy-law/privacy-
act/australian-privacy-principles) (APPs).

## Information we collect

We collect personal information about your (or your child’s):

  * name
  * address
  * contact details
  * banking details
  * signature
  * gender
  * date of birth
  * residency
  * Medicare number
  * diagnosis
  * relationship to the person with IEM and any relevant custody arrangements

## Why we collect this information

We need this information to:

  * determine if you are (or your child is) eligible to receive financial assistance under the program
  * administer the payments to you

If you do not provide your personal information, we cannot decide if you are
(or your child is) eligible or pay you.

## How we collect this information

We collect personal information directly from you, via the application form.

We will also collect your personal information from your approved metabolic
specialist, via the same application form.

## Who we disclose your personal information to

We may disclose your information to:

  * Services Australia, to confirm your Australian residency and Medicare enrolment status
  * anyone you’ve agreed we can share with
  * anyone the law requires us to share with

We are unlikely to disclose your personal information to overseas recipients.

## How we store your information

We will store your information on electronic media, including our Electronic
Document and Records Management System and cloud computing solutions. We also
store personal information on paper files. Only authorised Department of
Health and Aged Care staff or contractors have access to your personal
information. When we no longer need it, or when required by law, we will
destroy or de-identify your information.

See our full [privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy
policy") for more details.

## How we handle sensitive information

By submitting the application form, you agree to us collecting health
information about you (or your child).

We will use it as stated in ‘Why do we collect this information?’

## How you can access or correct your information

You can [contact us](/contacts/departmental-privacy-enquiries "Departmental
privacy enquiries") to access your personal information and correct it if it
is wrong. The [privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy
policy") includes more information about this process.

## Concerns and complaints

Our [privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy policy")
contains information about how you can make a complaint if you think we have
breached:

  * the Australian Privacy Principles, or
  * the Australian Government Agencies Privacy Code

The [privacy policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy policy")
also explains how we will manage your complaint.

## More on privacy

For more information see our [privacy page](/using-our-websites/website-
privacy-policy "Website privacy policy") and our full [privacy
policy](/resources/publications/privacy-policy "Privacy policy").

## Contacts

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Departmental privacy enquiries ](/contacts/departmental-privacy-
enquiries?language=en)

Contact to find out more about privacy within the department, or to make a
privacy enquiry or complaint.

Privacy officer:

[privacy@health.gov.au](mailto:privacy@health.gov.au)

Phone:

[02 6289 1555](tel:02 6289 1555)

Freecall:

[1800 020 103](tel:1800 020 103)

Last updated:

9 July 2022

Tags:

  * [Chronic conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
    * [Privacy impact assessment register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-impact-assessment-register)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care reform webinars](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-aged-care-reform-webinars)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care announcements and newsletters](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-aged-care-sector-newsletters-and-alerts)
    * [Privacy notice for consumers using the booking platform for COVID 19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-consumers-using-the-commonwealth-procured-booking-platform-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 training](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-training)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 mental health updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-mental-health-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccines update](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccines-update)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 weekly updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-updates-for-gps)
    * [Privacy notice for Health Portfolio Federal Budget Information](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-health-portfolio-federal-budget-information)
    * [Privacy notice for MRFF newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-mrff-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for National Immunisation Program (NIP) updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-national-immunisation-program-nip-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS – participants and family members](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross-participants-and-family-members)
    * [Collection notice for the Clinician Vaccine Integration Platform (CVIP)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/collection-notice-for-the-clinician-vaccine-integrated-platform-cvip)
    * [Privacy notice for the contact a minister form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-contact-a-minister-form)
    * [Privacy policy for the COVIDSafe app](https://covidsafe.gov.au/privacy-policy.html)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-patients)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-patients)
    * [Privacy Notice for Australian Immunisation Handbook updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-australian-immunisation-handbook-updates)
    * [Privacy Notice for the Register of Interest for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-register-of-interest-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines updates for multicultural communities](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-and-covid-19-vaccines-updates-for-multicultural-communities)
    * [Privacy notice for My Aged Care Learning Management System (MAClearning)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-my-aged-care-learning-management-system-maclearning)
    * [Privacy notice for the COVID-19 pandemic response workforce expression of interest form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-covid-19-pandemic-response-workforce-expression-of-interest-form)
    * [Privacy notice for the Government Provider Management System](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-gpms)
    * [Privacy notice for the MBS Review newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for the MRAC communique](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee-communique)
    * [Privacy notice for the Re-engaging Volunteers into Residential Aged Care Facilities program](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-re-engaging-volunteers-into-residential-aged-care-facilities-program)
    * [Privacy notice for vaccination providers using the COVID-19 Vaccine Administration System (CVAS)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-vaccination-providers-using-the-covid-19-vaccine-administration-system-cvas)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

