Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)

[Committees and groups](/committees-and-groups)

# Strengthening Medicare Taskforce

The Minister for Health and Aged Care established the Strengthening Medicare
Taskforce to provide recommendations on the highest priority improvements to
primary care.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Strengthening Medicare Taskforce&url=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/strengthening-medicare-taskforce)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/strengthening-medicare-taskforce)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Strengthening Medicare Taskforce&body=https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/strengthening-medicare-taskforce)

Loading...

On this page

## Role

The Australian Government is committed to improving primary health care for
all Australians. The Strengthening Medicare Taskforce began work in July 2022
to provide concrete recommendations to the Australian Government by the end of
2022. The taskforce will focus on:

  * improving patient access to general practice, including after hours
  * improving patient access to GP-led multidisciplinary team care, including nursing and allied health
  * making primary care more affordable for patients
  * improving prevention and management of ongoing and chronic conditions
  * reducing pressure on hospitals.

The Australian Government will consider the recommendations from the taskforce
and deliver the highest priority improvements to Medicare through the $750
million Strengthening Medicare Fund.

The taskforce builds on Australia’s [Primary Health Care 10 Year
Plan](/resources/publications/australias-primary-health-care-10-year-
plan-2022-2032 "Australia’s Primary Health Care 10 Year Plan 2022–2032")
2022-32.

## Members

**Member**

|

**Organisation**  
  
---|---  
  
The Hon Mark Butler MP, Chair

|

Minister for Health and Aged Care  
  
Dr Danielle McMullen

|

Vice President, Australian Medical Association  
  
Dr Nicole Higgins

|

President, Royal Australian College of General Practitioners.  
  
Dr Sarah Chalmers

|

Immediate Past President, Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine  
  
Dr Elizabeth Deveny

|

Chief Executive Officer, Consumers Health Forum of Australia  
  
Dr Dawn Casey PSM

|

Deputy Chief Executive Officer, National Aboriginal Community Controlled
Health Organisation  
  
Ms Karen Booth

|

President, Australian Primary Health Care Nurses Association  
  
Ms Annie Butler

|

Federal Secretary, Australian Nursing and Midwifery Federation  
  
Ms Amanda Cattermole PSM

|

Chief Executive Officer, Australian Digital Health Agency  
  
Professor Stephen Duckett

|

Honorary Enterprise Professor, Melbourne School of Population and Global
Health, The University of Melbourne  
  
Associate Professor Learne Durrington

|

Chief Executive Officer, WA Primary Health Alliance  
  
Professor Adam Elshaug

|

Director, Centre for Health Policy, Melbourne School of Population and Global
Health, The University of Melbourne  
  
Dr Steve Hambleton AM

|

General practitioner  
  
Dr Walid Jammal

|

General practitioner  
  
Dr Nigel Lyons

|

Deputy Secretary, NSW Health  
  
Mr Antony Nicholas

|

Board Chair, Allied Health Professions Australia  
  
Adjunct Professor Ruth Stewart

|

National Rural Health Commissioner  
  
## Publications

[
![""](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2023-02/strengthening-
medicare-taskforce-report_0.jpg?itok=kHiu8zM9)
](/resources/publications/strengthening-medicare-taskforce-report)

###  [Strengthening Medicare Taskforce Report
](/resources/publications/strengthening-medicare-taskforce-report?language=en)

The Strengthening Medicare Taskforce Report outlines a vision for Australia’s
primary care system of the future. The report recommends significant changes
to how primary care is funded and delivered to enable high quality, integrated
and person-centred care for all Australians.

## Meetings

The first meeting for the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce took place on 29
July 2022 in Sydney, New South Wales.

![Strengthening Medicare Taskforce – Communiques cover
image](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/images/collections/2022/08/strengthening-
medicare-taskforce-communiques.png?itok=a6WfHqUl)

###  [Strengthening Medicare Taskforce – Communiques
](/resources/collections/strengthening-medicare-taskforce-
communiques?language=en)

This collection contains communiques from the Strengthening Medicare
Taskforce.

## Media

Read the latest ministerial media about the taskforce:

  * [National Cabinet Statement on a better future for the federation](/news/national-cabinet-statement-on-a-better-future-for-the-federation "National Cabinet Statement on a better future for the federation")
  * [Strengthening Medicare for the future](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/strengthening-medicare-for-the-future "Strengthening Medicare for the future")
  * [Strengthening Medicare Taskforce appointed](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/strengthening-medicare-taskforce-appointed "Strengthening Medicare Taskforce appointed")

## Contact

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Department of Health and Aged Care National Office
](/contacts/department-of-health-and-aged-care-national-office?language=en)

Use these contact details for all general enquiries, comments and concerns.

[enquiries@health.gov.au](mailto:enquiries@health.gov.au)

Switchboard

[02 6289 1555](tel:02 6289 1555)

Freecall

[1800 020 103](tel:1800 020 103)

Last updated:

28 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

