Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [Medicare compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

[Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

# Voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect payments

If you think you've incorrectly claimed a Medicare or practice incentive
payment, you must let us know as soon as you can. You can do this by
submitting a voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect payments form.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect payments&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect payments&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)

Loading...

On this page

## **What a voluntary acknowledgement is**

A voluntary acknowledgement lets us know if you have incorrectly claimed a
payment under the:

  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) (MBS)
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS)
  * [Child Dental Benefits Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/child-dental-benefits-schedule) (CDBS)
  * [Practice Incentives Program](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program) (PIP).

## **Why make a voluntary acknowledgement**

Making a voluntary acknowledgement of an incorrect payment helps ensure
Medicare remains sustainable by only paying legitimate claims.

You must repay the incorrect payment amount.

A penalty may apply to any amount owing (the debt accrued). However, no
penalty will apply to voluntary acknowledgements.

## **Who can make a voluntary acknowledgement**

Health practitioners, health services and anyone who manages their finances
can make a voluntary acknowledgement of an incorrect Medicare payment.

## **When to make a voluntary acknowledgement**

You should send us a voluntary acknowledgment form as soon as you realise you
have made an incorrect claim.

## **How to make a voluntary acknowledgement**

To make a voluntary acknowledgment for incorrect payments fill out the
appropriate form for:

  * [MBS, CDBS or PIP](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
  * [PBS](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments-pbs).

Include any information with your form that you think will help us identify
the claim or incorrect payment.

## **What happens once you have sent your form**

Once we have reviewed your form, we will contact you to confirm how much you
owe and your payment options.

## **Compensation scheme and private health insurer payments**

If you realise you received an incorrect payment from a private health insurer
or compensation scheme, contact either:

  * the private health insurer directly
  * Services Australia’s Veterans’ Affairs processing enquiry line, if the patient was covered by a Department of Veterans’ Affairs scheme.

## **Contacts**

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-default-icon.png)

###  [ Medicare provider enquiry line ](/contacts/medicare-provider-enquiry-
line?language=en)

Services Australia's Medicare billing, claiming, payments or obtaining a
provider number enquiry line.

Medicare provider enquiry line, Services Australia

[132 150](tel:132 150)

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Voluntary compliance contact ](/contacts/voluntary-compliance-
contact?language=en)

Contact us if you have any questions about the voluntary acknowledgement of an
incorrect Medicare payment process.

[Voluntary.Compliance.Team@health.gov.au](mailto:Voluntary.Compliance.Team@health.gov.au)

[Voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect
payments](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/voluntary-
acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-default-icon.png)

###  [ Services Australia Veterans' Affairs processing enquiry line
](/contacts/services-australia-veterans-affairs-processing-enquiry-
line?language=en)

Contact us if you become aware of receiving an incorrect payment from a
private health insurer or for a patient who received cover or medical
treatment under a compensation scheme.

[1300 550 017](tel:1300 550 017)

Last updated:

19 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
    * [About](/topics/medicare/compliance/about)
    * [When it applies](/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)
    * [How to comply](/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)
    * [Our compliance activities](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)
    * [Voluntary acknowledgement](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
    * [Debts and penalties](/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)
    * [Reporting incorrect billing or claiming, or suspected fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

