Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)
  4. [Advice for COVID-19 vaccine providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)

[For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-
providers)

# COVID-19 vaccination training program

Information about the mandatory training for those involved in providing
COVID-19 vaccines.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=COVID-19 vaccination training program&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/covid-19-vaccination-training-program)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/covid-19-vaccination-training-program)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=COVID-19 vaccination training program&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/covid-19-vaccination-training-program)

Loading...

On this page

We have partnered with [Australian College of
Nursing,](https://www.acn.edu.au/) to develop and deliver the [COVID-19
Vaccination Training Program](https://covid19vaccinationtraining.org.au/).

This free, online program is mandatory for all COVID-19 vaccination providers,
including:

  * hospitals

  * general practices

  * state and Commonwealth vaccination clinics

  * Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisations

  * pharmacies.

If you work in a non-clinical role, you should take the modules covering
handling, storage and communication.

All COVID-19 vaccination providers must have authority to vaccinate in their
relevant state and territory and have undertaken immunisation training
required for their profession. Completing the COVID-19 vaccination training
program does not qualify participants as an authorised immunisation provider.

## About the training

The program has core and additional modules. Core modules involve general
training for COVID-19 vaccination. Additional modules are specific to
individual vaccines.

### Core modules

  1. General COVID-19 overview

  2. Handling and storage

  3. Communication, purpose and eligibility

  4. Multi-dose vial (MDV) training

  5. Documentation and reporting

  6. Safety and surveillance monitoring and reporting for adverse events following immunisation

### Additional modules

  * 1: Pfizer (COMIRNATY) for individuals 12 years and over
  * 1a: Pfizer (COMIRNATY BIVALENT BA.1) for adults 18 years and over
  * 1b: Pfizer (COMIRNATY BIVALENT BA.4-5) for individuals 12 years and over
  * 2: AstraZeneca (VAXZEVRIA) for adults 18 years and over
  * 3: Moderna (SPIKEVAX) for individuals 12 years and over
  * 3a: Moderna (SPIKEVAX) for children 6 years to 11 years
  * 3b: Moderna (SPIKEVAX) for children 6 months to 5 years
  * 3c: Moderna (SPIKEVAX BIVALENT BA.1) for adults 18 years and over
  * 3d: Moderna (SPIKEVAX BIVALENT BA.4-5) for individuals 12 years and over
  * 4: Pfizer (COMIRNATY) for children 5 years to 11 years
  * 4a: Pfizer (COMIRNATY) for children 6 months to 4 years
  * 5: Novavax (NUVAXOVID) for individuals 12 years and over
  * Future vaccines (as soon as possible as new vaccines emerge)

The platform issues certificates when you complete the core modules and each
additional module. Keep the certificates safe. Your employer may ask for
evidence you have completed the mandatory training.

## Accessing the training

The training is mandatory for all authorised COVID-19 vaccination providers.
You need to confirm with your employer that you will be a vaccination provider
before accessing the training.

There are multiple ways to enrol in the training depending on your role:

  * health professionals with an Ahpra number – access to all modules
  * health professionals without an Ahpra number – access to all modules
  * administrative/non-clinical – access to non-clinical modules.

Once you have completed the training program, please download and keep a copy
of your relevant COVID-19 Vaccination Training Program completion
certificates. One certificate is issued for completing the core modules, and
another is issued for each of the additional modules.

Your employer may ask for evidence that you have completed the training
program at any time, so please keep a copy ready in case it is requested.

We use an [e-learning
platform](https://covid19vaccinationtraining.org.au/login/index.php) to
deliver the training. You'll need to [create an
account](https://covid19vaccinationtraining.org.au/login/signup.php?) before
you can access the training.

[Access COVID-19 vaccination
training](https://covid19vaccinationtraining.org.au/login/index.php)

## Staying up to date

You need to log into the program regularly as we update the modules with the
latest advice from:

  * [Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation](https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/australian-technical-advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi) (ATAGI)

  * [Therapeutic Goods Administration](https://www.tga.gov.au) (TGA)

  * our own experts.

You can find a summary of updates on the announcement board on the main page.
In the modules, all changes are tagged as 'NEW'.

## Getting help

Use the platform's web chat feature to get help with any technical issues.
Help is available from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm AEST, Monday to Friday.

Last updated:

21 March 2023

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

  * [About the rollout](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)
  * [Vaccination numbers and statistics](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/vaccination-numbers-and-statistics)
  * [Our vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/our-vaccines)
  * [Who can get vaccinated](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/who-can-get-vaccinated)
  * [Getting your vaccination](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/getting-your-vaccination)
  * [Digital certificates](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/certificates)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/indigenous)
  * [For people with disability and service providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/disability-sector)
  * [Aged care](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/information-for-aged-care-providers-workers-and-residents-about-covid-19-vaccines)
  * [For providers and administrators](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers)
    * [Becoming a provider](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/becoming-a-provider)
    * [Clinical guidance for COVID-19 vaccine providers](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-guidance)
    * [Allocations, storage and handling](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/allocations-storage-handling)
    * [Managing your bookings](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/managing-bookings)
    * [Charging for consultations](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/charging-medicare)
    * [Vaccinating your patients](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/vaccinating-patients)
    * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/resources)
    * [Training program](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/covid-19-vaccination-training-program)
  * [Is it true? Get the facts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/is-it-true)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines campaign materials](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign)
  * [Translated information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-translated-information)
  * [News](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccination-contacts)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines privacy information](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-vaccines-privacy-and-security-information)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

