Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program)
  4. [Getting a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test)

[Getting a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-
program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test)

# Understanding your Cervical Screening Test results

Find out what your Cervical Screening Test results mean and what to do if more
tests are needed. Understand what may happen if your test result is positive
(meaning human papillomavirus (HPV) was found) and what happens with your
results.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Understanding your Cervical Screening Test results&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/understanding-your-cervical-screening-test-results)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/understanding-your-cervical-screening-test-results)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Understanding your Cervical Screening Test results&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/understanding-your-cervical-screening-test-results)

Loading...

On this page

You should receive your results within a few weeks of having the Cervical
Screening Test.

## Negative test result

If you’re told to ‘return to screen in 5 years’ this means the test did not
find any human papillomavirus (HPV).

You should get a letter a few months before your next test is due. Remember to
[keep your address up to date with
Medicare](https://www.humanservices.gov.au/individuals/online-
help/medicare/update-your-personal-information-using-your-medicare-online-
account), so we know how to reach you. You can also update your address
directly with the National Cancer Screening Register.

![National Cancer Screening Register
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/national-
cancer-screening-register-contact.png?itok=u5Fh2Xk_)

###  [ National Cancer Screening Register contact ](/contacts/national-cancer-
screening-register-contact?language=en)

Contact the National Cancer Screening Register to update your contact details
or ask questions about the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program or National
Cervical Screening Program. You can call between 8 am and 6 pm Monday to
Friday, except national public holidays, from anywhere in Australia.

[1800 627 701](tel:1800 627 701)

[1800 627 702](tel:1800 627 702)

[Contact the National Cancer Screening
Register](https://ncsr.gov.au/content/ncsr/en/contact-us.html)

## Results needing more tests

### Unsatisfactory test result

This means the lab can’t read your sample. You’ll need to come back for a
repeat Cervical Screening Test in 6 to 12 weeks.

An unsatisfactory result doesn’t mean anything’s wrong. It just means the lab
couldn't read the test properly. This can happen for a variety of reasons. The
sample collected might not have had enough cells, or the test may not have
worked for another, technical reason.

### Return to screen in 12 months

This means you tested positive for HPV but don't need further investigation at
this time. You'll need to have another test in a year. There's a good chance
that your body's immune system will get rid of the HPV in that time.

If the HPV infection’s gone when you are retested, you’ll return to 5-yearly
screening. If it is still there, you will be referred to see a specialist.

### Refer to a specialist

This means your results show either:

  * you tested positive for a type of HPV that needs further investigation
  * the test found abnormal cells that may need treatment.

Your health professional will refer you to a specialist (usually a
gynaecologist) for a [colposcopy](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/colposcopy).
This is a procedure that feels like having a Cervical Screening Test and
involves the specialist looking at the cells of the cervix more closely. It’s
very important to attend the appointment for further investigation.

This does not mean you have cervical cancer.

Talk to your health professional if you have any questions about your result.

Remember that an HPV infection usually doesn't turn into cervical cancer, but
it's best to keep an eye on it. It can take 10 to 15 years for an HPV
infection to cause cell changes which may eventually lead to cervical cancer.

## Recording results

The [National Cancer Screening Register](/our-work/national-cancer-screening-
register "National Cancer Screening Register") collects and monitors
information about your screening, including test results. The register's
[privacy statement](https://ncsr.gov.au/content/ncsr/en/about/privacy-
statement.html) outlines how they handle this information.

The register sends invitations and reminders when you are due for your next
Cervical Screening Test. This provides a safety net in addition to your GP and
makes it easy for you to [manage your
participation](https://www.ncsr.gov.au/content/ncsr/en/general-
public.html#manage_your_participation).

Last updated:

25 November 2020

Tags:

  * [Sexual health](/topics/sexual-health)
  * [Preventive health](/topics/preventive-health)
  * [Cancer](/topics/cancer)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [National Cervical Screening Program](/our-work/national-cervical-
screening-program)

  * [About the program](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/about-the-national-cervical-screening-program)
  * [Getting a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [Who should get a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/who-should-get-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [How to get a Cervical Screening Test](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-to-get-a-cervical-screening-test)
    * [How cervical screening works](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/how-cervical-screening-works)
    * [Self-collection](/self-collection-for-the-cervical-screening-test)
    * [Understanding your results](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/getting-a-cervical-screening-test/understanding-your-cervical-screening-test-results)
  * [Providing cervical screening](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/providing-cervical-screening)
  * [News](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/national-cervical-screening-program-news)
  * [Resources](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/cervical-screening-resources)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/national-cervical-screening-program/cervical-screening-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

