Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)
  3. [Website privacy policy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

[Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)

# Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register

Find out how we manage any personal information we collect in the Australian
Immunisation Register.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register &url=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register &body=https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-immunisation-register)

Loading...

On this page

This privacy policy sets out how we (the Australian Government Department of
Health and Aged Care) handle the personal information that is collected about
you in the Australian Immunisation Register (Register) in accordance with the
[Privacy Act 1988](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00024)
(Privacy Act) and the [Australian Immunisation Register Act
2015](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00122) (Register Act). This
policy also provides information on the role played by Services Australia with
respect to the Register.

This policy may be updated from time to time.

## What is the Register?

The Register is a whole of life, national immunisation register which records
vaccines given to all people in Australia. The Register includes vaccines
given under the National Immunisation Program, through school based programs,
and privately, such as for seasonal influenza or travel. The Register may also
include details of vaccines administered outside of Australia.

The Register came into existence in 2016 when the Australian Childhood
Immunisation Register was expanded to become the Register. The Australian
Childhood Immunisation Register began in 1996.

## What role does Services Australia have in relation to the Register?

Services Australia administers the Register on our behalf, and handles your
information in accordance with the Register Act and the Privacy Act.

This means that Services Australia is responsible for the operational, day-to-
day running of the Register. This includes helping you access your
immunisation history statement and providing telephone and processing services
for customers and vaccination providers.

## What personal information is collected in the Register?

When you receive a vaccine, the person administering the vaccine (who must be
a ‘recognised vaccination provider’), or someone on their behalf, may report
personal information about you to the Register.

The personal information that may be reported to the Register includes your
name, date of birth, contact details, gender, and Indigenous status, as well
as your Medicare number (if any) and healthcare identifier (if any). Other
information may also be reported to the Register, including details of the
vaccination, and information about the person who administered the vaccine.

For COVID-19 and influenza vaccinations, the recognised vaccination provider
will be required by law to report information to the Register.

Information collected by your vaccination provider will only be reported to
the Register where it is authorised or required by the Register Act.

## When can information in the Register be used and disclosed?

The Register Act contains protections and restrictions on how information in
the Register can be handled.

Personal information in the Register can only be used and disclosed for the
purposes set out in the Register Act. These purposes include:

  * monitoring vaccination coverage across Australia and parts of Australia
  * collecting, analysing and publishing statistics and other information about vaccination coverage across Australia and parts of Australia
  * identifying any parts of Australia at risk during disease outbreaks, because of the number of unvaccinated individuals in those parts
  * an individual or a recognised vaccination provider checking an individual’s vaccination status
  * advising an individual when they are, or were, due to receive a vaccine
  * certifying when a course of vaccination has been completed
  * monitoring the effectiveness of vaccines and vaccination programs in preventing vaccine preventable diseases
  * promoting individuals’ health and well‑being by giving information on new developments associated with vaccinations to them and to recognised vaccination providers
  * making payments relating to vaccinations
  * conducting research relating to vaccinations
  * checking vaccination status to determine eligibility for family assistance.

Personal information in the Register can also be used and disclosed in other
circumstances permitted by the Register Act, including where the use or
disclosure:

  * has been authorised by the Minister for Health and Aged Care and is for a public interest purpose
  * is for the purposes of the National Cancer Screening Register Act 2016
  * is authorised by law or court or tribunal proceedings.

We only ever use or disclose your personal information in accordance with the
Register Act and the Privacy Act.

## Who can access, use and disclose personal information in the Register?

The Register Act governs who can access, use and disclose your personal
information in the Register.

For example, access is permitted by:

  * the individuals to whom the information relates
  * recognised vaccination providers
  * authorised Commonwealth personnel, including officers and contractors engaged by us or Services Australia to work on the Register
  * prescribed bodies, which include state and territory health departments.

Information in the Register is only accessed and transmitted through secure
channels.

Information in the Register is also regularly uploaded to and stored in our
Enterprise Data Warehouse. The Enterprise Data Warehouse is an established
platform already in use that supports our storage of data in a secure
environment within Australia.

We, and the above individuals and entities, can only use and disclose your
personal information for a purpose permitted by the Register Act. Your
information may be de-identified before it is used to prepare aggregated
reports, for example, about vaccination coverage in Australia.

The Register has mechanisms which interact with the Medicare Online, myGov,
the Medicare Express Plus app and My Health Record systems, so that you can
access your information through those systems.

## How is my personal information stored?

Information in the Register is securely stored in Services Australia’s IT
environment, and our Enterprise Data Warehouse.

All of your information will be stored within Australia and will not be sent
overseas.

## Can I opt out from my vaccination information being included in the
Register?

No. Once you have been vaccinated, you cannot opt out of your information
being put into the Register where the Register Act requires reporting of the
information.

However, under the Register Act you can **** opt out of having your
vaccination information being made available to third parties. You can find
further information about this on Services Australia’s website, accessible at
this
[link](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register/update-your-details-your-medicare-card-and-air). The
relevant form to opt out is accessible at this
[link](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/forms/im017).

If you do opt-out, this means that no third parties (including your healthcare
providers) will be able to view any of your information in the Register. Your
decision to opt out will apply to all of your vaccination information (you
cannot opt out for specific vaccines).

## How can I access and correct my information in the Register?

You can access your immunisation history contained in the Register through
your [Medicare Online
account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-
online-accounts) through myGov, the Medicare Express Plus app, or your My
Health Record.

Alternatively, you can [contact Services
Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/australian-
immunisation-register/how-get-immunisation-history-statement) to request
access to your immunisation history in the Register. This includes by calling
the [Australian Immunisation Register
line](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/contact-us/phone-
us#acir) on 1800 653 809 (Monday to Friday 8am to 5pm).

You will not be able to access specific details of the vaccine product (such
as the vaccine batch number) that was administered to you. In the event that
you require specific details of the vaccine product your vaccination provider
can assist you.

If your personal details in the Register are incorrect, you can correct some
details through your Medicare Online account or you should contact Services
Australia.

If any of the immunisation details shown on your immunisation history
statement are incorrect or missing, you should contact your vaccination
provider. Information on your record about the vaccinations you have received
can only be changed if the changes are made or authorised by a recognised
vaccination provider.

## Further information about privacy

As well as this policy, we have an Australian Department of Health and Aged
Care privacy policy.

In addition to this [link to the
policy](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/privacy-policy), you
can obtain a copy of the privacy policy by contacting us using the contact
details set out below.

For further information about the use of information in relation to COVID-19
vaccines, see our [Privacy Notice for COVID-19
vaccinations](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy/privacy-
notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations).

## Complaints

If you wish to make a complaint about the way your personal information has
been managed, you can lodge a complaint with us using the details listed
below. Please provide as much information as possible so we can investigate
and respond.

We will:

  * let you know that we have received your complaint
  * do our best to respond within 30 days of receiving your complaint. If we can’t respond within this timeframe we will let you know.

If you are not satisfied with our response, you can contact the [Office of the
Australian Information Commissioner.](https://www.oaic.gov.au/privacy/privacy-
complaints/)

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Departmental privacy enquiries ](/contacts/departmental-privacy-
enquiries?language=en)

Contact to find out more about privacy within the department, or to make a
privacy enquiry or complaint.

Privacy officer:

[privacy@health.gov.au](mailto:privacy@health.gov.au)

Phone:

[02 6289 1555](tel:02 6289 1555)

Freecall:

[1800 020 103](tel:1800 020 103)

Last updated:

9 July 2022

Tags:

  * [Communicable diseases](/topics/communicable-diseases)
  * [Emergency health management](/topics/emergency-health-management)
  * [COVID-19 vaccines](/our-work/covid-19-vaccines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Using our websites](/using-our-websites)

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
    * [Privacy impact assessment register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-impact-assessment-register)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care reform webinars](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-aged-care-reform-webinars)
    * [Privacy notice for aged care announcements and newsletters](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-aged-care-sector-newsletters-and-alerts)
    * [Privacy notice for consumers using the booking platform for COVID 19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-consumers-using-the-commonwealth-procured-booking-platform-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 training](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-training)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 mental health updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-mental-health-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 vaccines update](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-vaccines-update)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 weekly updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-updates-for-gps)
    * [Privacy notice for Health Portfolio Federal Budget Information](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-health-portfolio-federal-budget-information)
    * [Privacy notice for MRFF newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-mrff-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for National Immunisation Program (NIP) updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-national-immunisation-program-nip-updates)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross)
    * [Privacy notice for the Bonded Medical Program – BRoSS – participants and family members](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-bonded-medical-program-bross-participants-and-family-members)
    * [Collection notice for the Clinician Vaccine Integration Platform (CVIP)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/collection-notice-for-the-clinician-vaccine-integrated-platform-cvip)
    * [Privacy notice for the contact a minister form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-contact-a-minister-form)
    * [Privacy policy for the COVIDSafe app](https://covidsafe.gov.au/privacy-policy.html)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the Inborn Errors of Metabolism program – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-inborn-errors-of-metabolism-program-patients)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – healthcare professionals](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-health-care-professionals)
    * [Privacy notice for the National Epidermolysis Bullosa Dressing Scheme – patients](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-national-epidermolysis-bullosa-dressing-scheme-patients)
    * [Privacy Notice for Australian Immunisation Handbook updates](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-australian-immunisation-handbook-updates)
    * [Privacy Notice for the Register of Interest for COVID-19 vaccinations](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-register-of-interest-for-covid-19-vaccinations)
    * [Privacy Policy for the Australian Immunisation Register](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-policy-for-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Privacy notice for COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines updates for multicultural communities](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-covid-19-and-covid-19-vaccines-updates-for-multicultural-communities)
    * [Privacy notice for My Aged Care Learning Management System (MAClearning)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-my-aged-care-learning-management-system-maclearning)
    * [Privacy notice for the COVID-19 pandemic response workforce expression of interest form](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-covid-19-pandemic-response-workforce-expression-of-interest-form)
    * [Privacy notice for the Government Provider Management System](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-gpms)
    * [Privacy notice for the MBS Review newsletter](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-newsletter)
    * [Privacy notice for the MRAC communique](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-mbs-review-advisory-committee-communique)
    * [Privacy notice for the Re-engaging Volunteers into Residential Aged Care Facilities program](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-the-re-engaging-volunteers-into-residential-aged-care-facilities-program)
    * [Privacy notice for vaccination providers using the COVID-19 Vaccine Administration System (CVAS)](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy/privacy-notice-for-vaccination-providers-using-the-covid-19-vaccine-administration-system-cvas)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

