Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Assistant Minister McBride – doorstop in Coffs Harbour – 16 May 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's doorstop on Strengthening
Medicare, health care workforce and Medicare Urgent Care Clinics.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Assistant Minister McBride – doorstop in Coffs Harbour – 16 May 2023 &url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-doorstop-in-coffs-harbour-16-may-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-doorstop-in-coffs-harbour-16-may-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Assistant Minister McBride – doorstop in Coffs Harbour – 16 May 2023 &body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/assistant-minister-mcbride-doorstop-in-coffs-harbour-16-may-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

16 May 2023

Date published:

17 May 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**JOURNALIST** So, we've got some emergency clinics opening up, one's going to
be here in Coffs. Is that right?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** That's right, we've seen in this Budget,
over $358 million extra invested in Urgent Care Centres, that'll mean that
there'll be 58, across Australia, and there'll be one right here in Coffs
Harbour. What these are intended to do is relieve the pressure on our
emergency departments, while giving people the kind of care that might be more
urgent than what can be provided at their general practice, but not life
threatening and requiring a visit to an emergency department. We know how
stretched our hospital emergency departments are, and we're really pleased to
be able to make this additional investment so that in communities like Coffs
Harbour, people will be able to walk in, without an appointment, free of
charge and get that urgent care that they need. We know that the further you
live outside of a big city in Australia, the worse your health outcomes are
likely to be, and we're determined as the government to do everything we can
to help to turn that around.

**JOURNALIST** What sort of examples would you say people attending that sort
of clinic would present with?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** It might be that someone has an earache
or a break or a sprain, and they're unable to get into their GP but they don't
need to go to an emergency department and wait, you know, four hours or more
for that kind of care. We've seen this model work effectively elsewhere and
the states and territories are very supportive of the model. And with that
additional investment, we're now going to be able to see, as I said, 58 Urgent
Care Centres across Australia, we know that expressions of interest in New
South Wales have closed, that Primary Health Networks, including Healthy North
Coast, are looking at those expressions of interest at the moment. There'll be
some Urgent Care Clinics up and running by July. But we'll see the rest of
those scheduled to be up and running by the end of the year.

**JOURNALIST** As I understand it, t's just an existing GP service, basically
broadening the scope, is that correct?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** That's exactly right. What we wanted to
do was invest in general practice, we value primary care, and the work that
general practitioners are doing in their communities. This model will mean
that an existing general practice can put in an expression of interest, which
will mean that they'll get extra support from the Commonwealth to be able to
either extend the hours, extend the scope of practice, which will build on the
work that they're doing in their community, it's just another way that we're
investing in primary care in general practice.

**JOURNALIST** Will this reduce the strain on emergency services? Emergency
care is completely overwhelmed at the moment.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Yes, and that's one of the other
intentions of this is to reduce the strain on our already clogged up emergency
departments. We know that people can wait hours in an emergency department and
this will be a presentation that would otherwise be avoidable, someone will be
able to get that care at an Urgent Care Clinic and not have to wait hours in
an emergency department and clog up that care for someone else who has a more
life threatening or serious condition.

**JOURNALIST** I guess the bottom line is that you don't have really enough
staff, isn't it? There's a massive short staffing issue where a lot of nurses
are double shifts. I spoke to a nurse the other day, and she said there was 41
shifts that weren't filled that morning at the hospital. So that's the big
problem isn't it that we're facing?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** And this is the thing that we've seen in
Australia. There's a shortage of healthcare workers, but also a challenge of
where they work. And we want to make sure that we've got the right
practitioners with the right skills and training, working in communities right
across Australia. One of the things that we've done is wipe the Help Debt of a
medical graduate from the first of January, who wants to and is willing to
work in the most remote parts of Australia. We've also introduced the single
employer model, which will mean that doctors in training can move seamlessly
from their hospital training through to working as registrars in general
practice. We're also investing in innovative models of care because we know
team based care is the right kind of care. It's integrated, it's
collaborative, and our investment in innovative models of care will also
support practices like CHC here and the work that they're doing.

**JOURNALIST** States like WA have already brought back their unvaccinated
staff is that a consideration because any help would be good, wouldn't it? You
have lost a few, there were hundreds involved in those marches early on. And
every other sort of industries, has overturned that policy. And it's been
overturned in WA as well, hasn't it?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** These are decisions for the state and
territory governments. What we're trying to do is make sure that from a
Commonwealth perspective, we can invest as strongly as we can in primary care
to deal with that pipeline of workforce, to give them the right sort of
support, to be able to provide that care so that we can retain the health
workers that we have, so that we can create the future health care workers to
be able to help overcome those recruitment and retention challenges that we
face.

What we have done in this budget is invest $3.5 billion in tripling the bulk
billing incentive and what we're looking to see through that is practices,
like a practice here be able to bulk bill children, young children, and older
people to make sure that the most vulnerable Australians can get access to the
care and support they need, when they need it affordably and close to home.
And I'm so pleased to be here today in Coffs Harbour, and to have met with
clinicians who are passionate about their communities who are dedicated to
providing that kind of care. We're being able to give them a bit more
financial support to be able to provide that quality care to local people.

**JOURNALIST** Do you think you're going to be able to access more staff to
sort of be able to accommodate all these extra services?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER** Well, we're working very closely with the
states and territories on that health workforce pipeline. It's the biggest
challenge that we face and it's one that we're determined to turn around.
We're doing that by investing in more Commonwealth supported places for
medical students, by investing in scholarships for nursing students, by
investing strongly in the psychology pipeline of the psychology workforce, by
supporting in this budget 500 more postgraduate places, 500 more provisional
psychology places, and 2000 more supervisory places.

What we're working on is closing those gaps in services making sure that those
urgent needs are addressed whilst at the same time building that pipeline of
health workforce and we know that when you train health workers in regional
and remote communities, they're much more likely to live and work and practice
in those communities.

Thank you.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

