Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)

[Our work](/our-work)

# Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive

The Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive (PIP IHI)
provides payments to health services to provide better care to Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people living with a chronic disease.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/practice-incentives-program-indigenous-health-incentive)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/practice-incentives-program-indigenous-health-incentive)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/practice-incentives-program-indigenous-health-incentive)

Loading...

On this page

## About the initiative

The Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive (PIP IHI)
encourages health services to meet the health care needs of Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people with a chronic disease. Health services include
general practices, Aboriginal Medical Services and Aboriginal Community
Controlled Health Services.

## Why it is important

Chronic disease is responsible for [70% of the health
gap](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/burden-of-disease/illness-death-
indigenous-australians/summary) between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people and non-Indigenous Australians. The PIP IHI seeks to address this gap
with better chronic disease management for Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander people.

## Goals

The PIP IHI’s goals are to:

  * improve the health outcomes of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
  * encourage practices to prevent, identify and manage chronic disease.

## Meeting our goals

The PIP IHI meets its goals by providing incentive payments to health
services. The incentives help services to deliver high quality, comprehensive
primary health care to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people living
with a chronic disease.

## Who we work with

The PIP IHI is one of several incentives administered by Services Australia on
our behalf. Read [more about these
incentives](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program/what-are-
individual-incentives).

## Consultation and review

We consulted stakeholders in 2018 and 2019 to identify ways to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of the PIP IHI. The consultation process
included:

  * a series of forums involving 68 stakeholders
  * 26 written submissions from peak bodies and other health service providers.

Following the review, the Australian Government announced changes to the PIP
IHI as part of the 2021–22 Budget. These changes are designed better
incentivise continuity of care and improve health outcomes for Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people with a chronic disease or mental health
condition. They will also expand eligibility to Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander people under the age of 15 and streamline administrative
requirements.

## Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive guidelines

The [Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive
guidelines](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/indigenous-health-incentive-
for-practice-incentives-program?context=23046) have now been updated to
reflect the changes from 1 January 2023.

## Learn more

Our printable fact sheet has more details about the changes to the PIP IHI.

[ ![Cover image Changes to the Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health
Incentive fact
sheet](/sites/default/files/styles/h_thumbnail_max_width/public/2022-11/changes-
to-the-practice-incentives-program-indigenous-health-
incentive.png?itok=N06bA_Hm) ](/resources/publications/changes-to-the-
practice-incentives-program-indigenous-health-incentive)

###  [Changes to the Practice Incentives Program – Indigenous Health Incentive
](/resources/publications/changes-to-the-practice-incentives-program-
indigenous-health-incentive?language=en)

This fact sheet contains details of changes to the Practice Incentives Program
– Indigenous Health Incentive (PIP-IHI) that will apply from 1 January 2023.

## Contact

![Services Australia
logo](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/services-
australia-practice-incentives-program-contact.png?itok=QA-Xjzeh)

###  [ Services Australia Practice Incentives Program contact
](/contacts/services-australia-practice-incentives-program-
contact?language=en)

Contact Services Australia for information on incentives available through the
Practice Incentives Program.

[pip@servicesaustralia.gov.au](mailto:pip@servicesaustralia.gov.au)

[1800 222 032](tel:1800 222 032)

[Services Australia Practice Incentives
Program](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program)

Last updated:

21 November 2022

Tags:

  * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health](/topics/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

