Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  3. [Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

[Minister McBride's media](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media)

# Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and Rebekah Lowe, ABC
Wimmera - 20 April 2023

Read the transcript of Assistant Minister McBride's interview with Rebekah
Lowe on Aged care; Strengthening Medicare Taskforce; GP Grants Program.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and Rebekah Lowe, ABC Wimmera - 20 April 2023&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-rebekah-lowe-abc-wimmera-20-april-2023)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-rebekah-lowe-abc-wimmera-20-april-2023)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Radio interview with Assistant Minister McBride and Rebekah Lowe, ABC Wimmera - 20 April 2023&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp/media/radio-interview-with-assistant-minister-mcbride-and-rebekah-lowe-abc-wimmera-20-april-2023)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-emma-mcbride-
mp_1.jpg?itok=ovnHd3pT)

**The Hon Emma McBride MP**  
Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention  
Assistant Minister Rural and Regional Health

Media event date:

20 April 2023

Date published:

20 April 2023

Media type:

Transcript

Audience:

General public

**REBEKAH LOWE, HOST:** Emma McBride is a Federal Assistant Minister for Rural
and Regional Health and the Assistant Minister for Mental Health and Suicide
Prevention as well. She has recently been in Mildura. She joins us this
morning. Good morning.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Good morning, good to be with you.

**REBEKAH LOWE, HOST:** You heard there Anthony Hogan, the CEO of Goodwin
Homes at Donald, how many other rather rural aged care facilities are in the
same situation?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** What we know is that every Australian
deserves dignity in aged care. I lost my own father to Young-onset Alzheimer's
and my family had our own experiences of aged care and we want to make sure
that every older Australian has the dignity and care that they need. From the
latest data we know that close to 80 per cent of aged care homes will meet the
24/7 Nursing requirements. And as is in Anthony Hogan's experience, the
department and the government are working side by side with aged care homes,
to help them to meet the requirements and also to work with them including
with exemptions for those that have valid reasons for not meeting the targets.

**REBEKAH LOWE, HOST:** You've heard of the terrible situation in Sydney with
Wesley Homes of course and obviously people are looking for reassurance for
their families who often have lived their whole lives in small towns. So any
chance the exemptions will be extended further to remove the financial
pressure? Just because people are old doesn't necessarily mean they are ill or
need 24/7 Registered Nurse presents though, does it?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Well, what we saw from the
recommendations of the Royal Commission into Aged Care, and I know so many
Australians were shocked and saddened to see some of the revelations from the
Royal Commission, that we need to restore dignity to aged care. We need to
make sure that every Australian in aged care has the dignity and support that
they need. And as I said, the government isn't going to apologise for being
ambitious about aged care and 24/7 nursing care because this is something that
every older Australian and their loved ones and families deserve.

**REBEKAH LOWE, HOST:** Now let's move on. You've been in Mildura, you met
with health providers there. So, what did you talk about with them? So what
can your government do about that?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** I was so pleased to be in Mildura and to
be hosted by the Murray Primary Health Network and their CEO Matt Jones. I was
able to hear from over 20 local clinicians, service providers and policy
makers, including the local council and the hospital. And one of the things
that I heard was that despite the challenges that people face in accessing
care in more regional and remote communities, that there is such strong
collaboration between the local healthcare providers and services, and they
are really determined to work together to be able to make sure that every
person in their community can have access the care that they need. There are
big challenges, and these just didn't happen, this is really the result of
nearly 10 years of neglect from the former government and it has never been,
as I heard in Mildura, that it's never been harder or more expensive to find a
bulk billing doctor. Well, just today, our government has announced $220
million in Strengthening Medicare GP Grants. These grants are up to $50,000
for general practices, to be able to enhance their digital healthcare
capabilities, to upgrade their infection prevention and control arrangements.
I've heard from local general practices right around the country, from
Gordonvale in far north Queensland to Mildura in your community in Victoria,
and what general practitioners are looking for, is that increase in support to
be able to provide that quality care to their local community.

**REBEKAH LOWE, HOST:** Okay but GPs say the reason they don't bulk bill is
because the rebate has not been increased. So how will this help this? How
will this change the situation?

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** What doctors often talk about is the
stability of their practice and being able to have that extra support. I've
had doctors who say to me, 'I need to upgrade my vaccine fridge,' or 'I'd
really like to improve our telehealth,' and what these grants will do, as I
said, up to $50,000 depending on the size of the GP practice will help them to
be able to make those improvements to their infrastructure, both digital and
physical, to be able to help meet the changing needs of people and healthcare
provision in our in our communities.

**REBEKAH LOWE, HOST:** But how does that help the paying public? They're
getting to a stage where people are $50 or more out of pocket because the
rebate being about $38. So it seems to be that it's really the fact that the
patient's the ones suffering here though.

**EMMA MCBRIDE, ASSISTANT MINISTER:** Well this will also be, this is running
alongside our Strengthening Medicare Taskforce. The government stood up the
Strengthening Medicare Taskforce just after the election. And there is $750
million earmarked towards the recommendations from that taskforce. They're
being worked through the budget process at the moment to make sure that
there's investment in the right kind of measures that will boost access and
affordability for people living all around Australia but particularly in
regional and remote communities.

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Aged care](/topics/aged-care)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Emma McBride MP](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

