Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)
  4. [Immunisation information for health professionals](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals)

[For health professionals](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-
health-professionals)

# Using the Australian Immunisation Register

This page provides information to health care professionals about the
Australian Immunisation Register, and how they can use it to record
vaccinations and generate reports.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Using the Australian Immunisation Register&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals/using-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals/using-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Using the Australian Immunisation Register&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals/using-the-australian-immunisation-register)

Loading...

On this page

## What is the Australian Immunisation Register?

The Australian Immunisation Register (AIR) is a national register which
records vaccines given to all people Australia. This includes:

  * COVID-19 vaccines
  * vaccines given under the National Immunisation Program (NIP)
  * vaccines given privately, such as for seasonal influenza or travel.

Recognised vaccination providers should record all vaccines given to patients
− including through school vaccination programs − on the AIR.

The AIR can also be used to:

  * check which vaccines your patients have had
  * check if your patients are overdue for any vaccines
  * report medical contraindications online or natural immunities – eligible vaccination providers only.

## Checking your patient's immunisation history

You can check your patient’s immunisation history before you vaccinate
through:

  * clinical software, if integrated with the AIR
  * the [AIR site](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/australian-immunisation-register-for-health-professionals) in [Health Professional Online Services (HPOS)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/hpos).

## Identifying people who are overdue for their vaccines

AIR reports that can help you identify children who are overdue for
immunisation include:

  * AIR010A – AIR Due/Overdue Practice Report
  * AIR011A – Due/Overdue report by locality
  * AIR011B – Due/overdue report by vaccination provider

Visit the [AIR site](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/australian-
immunisation-register-for-health-professionals) in [Health Professional Online
Services (HPOS)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/hpos) to see these reports.

## Recording vaccines given to your patients

It’s important to record the vaccines you give to your patients on the AIR at
the time of vaccination. Information on the AIR needs to be accurate and up to
date so that:

  * families can receive their appropriate childcare and Family Tax Benefit (FTB) payments on time
  * children can enrol in school or adults can start certain jobs on time
  * the AIR can inform public health management and research of vaccine-preventable diseases.

Recognised vaccination providers should report to the AIR all vaccinations
they give to their patients in Australia. They should also record those given
overseas if they have appropriate documentation.

If your practice software does not automatically report vaccinations to the
AIR, you will need to report these vaccinations directly using the AIR
website.

Information about sending or receiving immunisation data from the AIR is
available on the [AIR
site](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/australian-immunisation-register-health-
professionals).

## Mandatory reporting

Under the _[Australian Immunisation Register Act
2015](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00418)_ it is mandatory for
all vaccination providers to report to the AIR:

  * COVID-19 vaccinations administrated on or after 20 February 2021
  * Influenza vaccinations administered on or after 1 March 2021
  * NIP vaccinations administered on or after 1 July 2021, and
  * Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) vaccines administered on or after 21 December 2022.

The Australian Immunisation Register Rule 2015 lists the specific vaccines,
the data elements to report, and how and when to report these. These include:

  * Relevant vaccines: COVID-19, influenza, NIP and JEV vaccines
  * How to report: electronic, or if this is not reasonably practical then in written form
  * When to report: within 24 hours, and no more than 10 working days after the vaccination.
  * personal information: Medicare number (if applicable), name, contact details, date of birth, gender
  * vaccine information: brand name, dose number and batch number, date given, for COVID19 vaccines - vial serial number (if known)
  * provider information: provider number, name and contact details.

## Ensuring records are accurate

Encourage your patients to update the personal details they have recorded with
Medicare (including their address and whether they identify as Aboriginal or
Torres Strait Islander people). The AIR uses Medicare details in its records,
so the details need to be right so that the AIR will be accurate.

Patients can update their Medicare details online using the [Medicare online
account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/medicare-
online-accounts) through [myGov](https://my.gov.au/), or through the [Express
Plus Medicare mobile
app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/services/medicare/express-
plus-medicare-mobile-app).

## Vaccination provider information payments

Eligible vaccination providers get an information payment for:

  * completing a [National Immunisation Program (NIP) Schedule](/node/1091) for a child under 7 years old and recording it on the AIR
  * following up and vaccinating a child under 7 years old, who is more than 2 months overdue for their childhood vaccinations under the NIP Schedule, and recording it on the AIR.

The information payments are:

  * up to $6 per completed immunisation schedule for children under 7 years old
  * $6 per completed catch-up schedule for children under 7 years old
  * paid by Electronic Funds Transfer on the second last Tuesday of each month.

To get a payment, you need to provide your bank account details when you:

  * register as a vaccination provider with the AIR
  * complete the [AIR Bank Account Details for Vaccination Providers form](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/forms/im005)

To update your bank account details on the AIR:

  * use [Health Professional Online Services (HPOS)](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/hpos) or
  * complete the [AIR Bank Account Details for Vaccination Providers form](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/forms/im005).

You’ll get an immunisation payment statement summary each month. You can
access the statement on the [AIR
site](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/australian-immunisation-register-health-
professionals).

Immunisation details submitted to AIR during the last month will be included
in the Immunisation Notifications Reconciliation report. This report is
available on the [AIR
site](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-
professionals/services/medicare/australian-immunisation-register-health-
professionals) on the second last Tuesday of each month.

Last updated:

13 January 2023

Tags:

  * [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Immunisation](/topics/immunisation)

  * [About immunisation](/topics/immunisation/about-immunisation)
  * [When to get vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/when-to-get-vaccinated)
  * [Vaccines](/topics/immunisation/vaccines)
  * [Getting vaccinated](/topics/immunisation/getting-vaccinated)
  * [For health professionals](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals)
    * [Catch-up immunisations](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals/catch-up-immunisations)
    * [Clinical support](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals/immunisation-clinical-support)
    * [Storing, handling and administering vaccines](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals/storing-handling-and-administering-vaccines)
    * [Using the Australian Immunisation Register (AIR)](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals/using-the-australian-immunisation-register)
    * [Reporting and managing adverse events](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals/reporting-and-managing-adverse-vaccination-events)
    * [Immunisations for health care workers](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-information-for-health-professionals/immunisations-for-health-care-workers)
  * [Immunisation data](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-data)
  * [News](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-news)
  * [Resources](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/immunisation/immunisation-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

