Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)

[Topics](/topics)

# Primary care

Primary care is health care people seek first in their community, such as GPs,
pharmacies and allied health professionals. Discover how primary care is
funded and our plan to strengthen it. Learn about after-hours care and why
pharmacy care is more than medicines.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Primary care&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/primary-care)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/primary-care)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Primary care&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/primary-care)

Loading...

###  [ About primary care ](/topics/primary-care/about)

Discover what primary care is and why it's so important for you, your family
and our health system.

###  [ What we're doing ](/topics/primary-care/what-we-do)

Find out how we're improving primary care through innovative new programs,
strengthening Medicare and more.

###  [ After-hours care ](/topics/primary-care/what-we-do/after-hours-care)

We fund after-hours care – for when treatment just can't wait but it's not
serious enough for hospital.

###  [ Pharmacy care ](/topics/primary-care/what-we-do/pharmacy-care)

Pharmacies sell medicines but they also provide a range of useful services you
may not know about.

[View all primary care information](/topics/primary-care/about)

## Latest news

## Latest news

###  [ National Cabinet Statement on a better future for the federation
](/news/national-cabinet-statement-on-a-better-future-for-the-
federation?language=en)

See the below statement, released following the conclusion of National Cabinet
on Friday 28 April 2023.

28 April 2023

![Nurse pictured in front of rural
clinic](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/2023-03/release-
of-the-national-rural-and-remote-nursing-generalist-
framework-2023-2027_0.jpg?itok=urFbq_um)

###  [ Release of the National Rural and Remote Nursing Generalist Framework
2023–2027 ](/news/release-of-the-national-rural-and-remote-nursing-generalist-
framework-2023-2027?language=en)

18 April 2023

![""](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/2023-02/release-
of-the-strengthening-medicare-taskforce-report_1.jpg?itok=pUu_Q-OT)

###  [ Release of the Strengthening Medicare Taskforce Report ](/news/release-
of-the-strengthening-medicare-taskforce-report?language=en)

6 February 2023

[View more news](/topics/primary-
care/news?sort_by=field_h_date_published_value&sort_order=DESC)

![Doctor reassuring
patient](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-11/dr-
reassuring-patient.png?itok=ReOeApud)

## Primary Health Networks

Australia’s 31 Primary Health Networks (PHNs) are independent organisations
working to streamline health services – particularly for those at risk of poor
health outcomes – and to better coordinate care so people receive the right
care, in the right place, at the right time.

[Learn more](/our-work/phn "Primary Health Networks")

## healthdirect hotline

[ 1800 022 222 ](tel:1800022222)

Call this number to speak to a registered nurse about your health concerns.
The hotline is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

![National Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation
\(NACCHO\)](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/2022-11/ahcsa.png?itok=R_459j7B)

### National Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation (NACCHO)

NACCHO provides advice and guidance to the Australian Government on policy and
budget matters. It also advocates for community-developed health solutions
that improve quality of life and improved health for Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander people.

[Find out more](https://www.naccho.org.au/)

## Latest resources

## Latest resources

![PBS approved suppliers portal – How to submit an application to relocate
\(without a change of ownership\) an approved
pharmacy](/sites/default/files/2023-05/pbs-approved-suppliers-portal-how-to-
submit-an-application-to-relocate-without-a-change-of-ownership-an-approved-
pharmacy.jpg)

### [PBS approved suppliers portal – How to submit an application to relocate
(without a change of ownership) an approved pharmacy
](/resources/publications/pbs-approved-suppliers-portal-how-to-submit-an-
application-to-relocate-without-a-change-of-ownership-an-approved-
pharmacy?language=en)

11 May 2023

Procedure

This guide provides instructions on how to navigate the PBS Approved Suppliers
Portal, complete the online application form and submit an application to
relocate (without change of ownership) an approved pharmacy to supply
pharmaceutical benefits at particular premises.

![Cover page Allied Health Industry Reference Group – Summary of Outcomes – 14
March 2023](/sites/default/files/2023-03/allied-health-industry-reference-
group-summary-of-outcomes-14-march-2023.jpg)

### [Allied Health Industry Reference Group – Summary of outcomes – 14 March
2023 ](/resources/publications/allied-health-industry-reference-group-summary-
of-outcomes-14-march-2023?language=en)

28 March 2023

Meeting minutes

This publication provides key information from the fifth meeting of the Allied
Health Industry Reference Group. This includes major topics that were covered,
points of discussion, and actions that the Department has agreed to.

![Cover page Roadmap Implementation Governance Group \(RIGG\) – Meeting
Summary 14 November 2022](/sites/default/files/2023-03/roadmap-implementation-
governance-group-rigg-meeting-summary-14-november-2022_0.jpg)

### [Roadmap Implementation Governance Group (RIGG) – Meeting Summary 14
November 2022 ](/resources/publications/roadmap-implementation-governance-
group-rigg-meeting-summary-14-november-2022?language=en)

27 March 2023

Meeting minutes

This document summarises the discussion and outcomes of the third Roadmap
Implementation Governance Group (RIGG) meeting held on 14 November 2022.

![Easy Read logo](/sites/default/files/2023-03/roadmap-implementation-
governance-group-rigg-meeting-summary-14-november-2022-easy-read.png)

### [Roadmap Implementation Governance Group (RIGG) – Meeting Summary 14
November 2022 – Easy Read ](/resources/publications/roadmap-implementation-
governance-group-rigg-meeting-summary-14-november-2022-easy-read?language=en)

27 March 2023

Meeting minutes

This document, in Easy Read, summarises the discussion and outcomes of the
third Roadmap Implementation Governance Group (RIGG) meeting held on 14
November 2022.

[View more resources](/topics/primary-
care/resources?sort_by=field_h_resource_date_value&sort_order=DESC)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

