Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

[Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

# What we're doing about primary care

We’re improving primary care through innovative new programs, strengthening
Medicare, expanding telehealth and more.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What we're doing about primary care&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/primary-care/what-we-do)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/primary-care/what-we-do)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=What we're doing about primary care&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/primary-care/what-we-do)

Loading...

On this page

## Key support for primary care

### Budget commitments

The Australian Government announced a $2.9 billion package in its 2022–23
Budget for a revamp of Australia’s primary care system. This includes:

  * $220m to deliver the [Strengthening Medicare GP Grants Program](/resources/publications/strengthening-medicare-general-practice-grants-program "Strengthening Medicare – General Practice Grants Program") to provide general practice with more resources to invest in their practice
  * $235m to establish 50 Medicare Urgent Care Clinics in existing GP clinics or community health centres across Australia

In addition, the Australian Government will provide $750 million over 3 years
from 2023–24 to deliver the highest priority investments in strengthening
Medicare.

### Strengthening Medicare Taskforce

The Strengthening Medicare Taskforce delivered its report in February 2023.
This report outlines a vision for Australia’s primary care system of the
future.

The report recommends significant changes to how primary care is funded and
delivered to enable high quality, integrated and person-centred care for all
Australians.

Learn more about the [Strengthening Medicare Taskforce
Report](/resources/publications/strengthening-medicare-taskforce-report
"Strengthening Medicare Taskforce Report").

### Telehealth expansion

[Telehealth](/topics/health-technologies-and-digital-health/about/telehealth
"Telehealth") allows you to have an appointment with a healthcare provider by
phone or a video call.

Telehealth was expanded in March 2020 to ensure the safety of patients and
healthcare providers during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Many of these services have now been retained permanently to improve people’s
access to primary care.

### Better prevention and management of chronic conditions

Primary care services are available to help people with [chronic
conditions](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-
conditions "What we’re doing about chronic conditions") and their physical and
mental health and wellbeing. This includes for:

  * [diabetes](/topics/chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-chronic-conditions/what-were-doing-about-diabetes "What we’re doing about diabetes")
  * [nutrition](/topics/food-and-nutrition/what-were-doing "What we’re doing about food and nutrition")
  * [physical activity](/topics/physical-activity-and-exercise/about-physical-activity-and-exercise "About physical activity and exercise")
  * [obesity](/topics/overweight-and-obesity "Overweight and obesity")
  * [mental health](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-prevention/about-mental-health "About mental health").

You can use the [AUSDRISK tool](/resources/apps-and-tools/the-australian-
type-2-diabetes-risk-assessment-tool-ausdrisk "The Australian Type 2 Diabetes
Risk Assessment Tool \(AUSDRISK\)") to estimate your risk of getting type 2
diabetes in the next 5 years.

[Medicare provides subsidies](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/chronic-
disease/use-of-medicare-chronic-disease-management/summary) for primary care,
chronic disease management, and patients who need care from a
multidisciplinary team.

Learn more about [primary care services provided by
healthdirect](https://about.healthdirect.gov.au/our-portfolio).

### Support for mental health

The [Better Access initiative](/our-work/better-access-initiative "Better
Access initiative") provides Medicare rebates to help people access mental
health professionals and care, regardless of where they live.

Learn more about [mental health](/topics/mental-health-and-suicide-
prevention/about-mental-health "About mental health").

## Other support for primary care

### Rural and remote GP access

We fund a program to [support people to access GPs in rural and remote
hospitals and health services](/our-work/coag-section-192-exemptions-
initiative "COAG Section 19\(2\) Exemptions Initiative – Improving Access to
Primary Care in Rural and Remote Areas").

### Our other health plans

We have other plans, which work with the [Primary Health Care 10 Year
Plan](/resources/publications/australias-primary-health-care-10-year-
plan-2022-2032 "Australia’s Primary Health Care 10 Year Plan 2022–2032"), to
support better health outcomes. These include:

  * [National Medical Workforce Strategy 2021–2031](/our-work/national-medical-workforce-strategy-2021-2031 "National Medical Workforce Strategy 2021–2031")
  * [National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Plan 2021–2031](/resources/publications/national-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-health-plan-2021-2031 "National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Plan 2021–2031")
  * [National Preventive Health Strategy 2021–2030](/resources/publications/national-preventive-health-strategy-2021-2030 "National Preventive Health Strategy 2021–2030").

### Improving the health of Australians with intellectual disability

We are also delivering the [National Roadmap for Improving the Health of
People with Intellectual Disability](/our-work/national-roadmap-for-improving-
the-health-of-people-with-intellectual-disability "National Roadmap for
Improving the Health of People with Intellectual Disability").

The roadmap aims to address serious health inequities faced by people with
intellectual disability. It was developed after consultation with people with
intellectual disability and other stakeholders, researchers and experts.

### Funding early intervention programs

We previously funded the Helping Children with Autism Program and the Better
Start for Children with Disability Initiative. Funding is still available for
early intervention in these areas through the
[NDIS](https://www.ndis.gov.au/).

### Allied health care

Allied health care is a type of primary care. It’s provided by a broad range
of health professionals who can treat conditions and illnesses. Allied health
services are funded in different ways. Some are subsidised by the Australian
Government.

Learn more about [allied health care](/topics/allied-health-care "Allied
health care").

### Dental health

We provide funding for some dental health services. This includes the [Child
Dental Benefits Schedule](/our-work/child-dental-benefits-schedule "Child
Dental Benefits Schedule") (CDBS) and support to state and territory
governments to deliver more [public dental services for
adults](https://federalfinancialrelations.gov.au/agreements/public-dental-
services-adults).

Learn more about[ dental health](/topics/dental-health "Dental health").

## Primary Health Networks

[Primary Health Networks](/our-work/phn "Primary Health Networks") (PHNs) are
independent organisations we fund to coordinate primary care in their region.
PHNs assess community needs and commission health services for their region.

Last updated:

3 April 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [Primary Health Care Research initiative](/our-work/primary-health-care-research-initiative)
  * [Primary Health Care Activity](/our-work/primary-health-care-activity)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Primary care](/topics/primary-care)

  * [About primary care](/topics/primary-care/about)
  * [What we do](/topics/primary-care/what-we-do)
    * [Pharmacy care](/topics/primary-care/what-we-do/pharmacy-care)
    * [Seventh Community Pharmacy Agreement (7CPA)](/topics/primary-care/what-we-do/7cpa)
    * [After-hours care](/topics/primary-care/what-we-do/after-hours-care)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/primary-care/initiatives-and-programs)
  * [News](/topics/primary-care/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/primary-care/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/primary-care/primary-care-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

