Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program](/our-work/amds)

[Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program](/our-work/amds)

# Approved Medical Deputising Services program guidelines and compliance

Doctors and medical deputising services must comply with the Approved Medical
Deputising Services (AMDS) program guidelines. We monitor compliance and
investigate any complaint we receive.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Approved Medical Deputising Services program guidelines and compliance&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/amds/guidelines-compliance)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/amds/guidelines-compliance)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Approved Medical Deputising Services program guidelines and compliance&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/amds/guidelines-compliance)

Loading...

On this page

## **Guidelines**

The [AMDS program guidelines](/resources/publications/approved-medical-
deputising-services-amds-program-guidelines "Approved Medical Deputising
Services \(AMDS\) program guidelines") outline the responsibilities of
participating doctors and medical deputising services. We made some changes to
the guidelines in August 2021, including:

  * requiring services to provide on their website maps, lists or search functions of the areas they can reliably and consistently service 
  * requiring services to provide an event summary or consultation notes to a patient’s regular general practice
  * clarifying the use of online bookings
  * clarifying the use of advertising for an AMDS service
  * prohibiting services from paying incentives to general practices.

Read more about [the changes and why we made
them](/resources/publications/approved-medical-deputising-services-amds-
summary-of-changes-to-guidelines "Approved Medical Deputising Services
\(AMDS\) – Summary of changes to guidelines").

## **For doctors**

Doctors must comply with the [program
guidelines](/resources/publications/approved-medical-deputising-services-amds-
program-guidelines "Approved Medical Deputising Services \(AMDS\) program
guidelines"). This includes:

  * submitting all necessary paperwork
  * having a current Level 1 Advanced Life Support qualification
  * responding to compliance issues we or the provider raises
  * providing evidence of participation in a college-led fellowship program.

## **For medical deputising services**

AMDS service providers must comply with the [program
guidelines](/resources/publications/approved-medical-deputising-services-amds-
program-guidelines "Approved Medical Deputising Services \(AMDS\) program
guidelines"). This includes:

  * not offering incentive payments to a general practice
  * not marketing their services directly to consumers, as patients seeking after-hours care should contact their usual general practice for advice
  * only offering services that are not already offered in daytime general practices
  * operating an Australian-based call centre.

## **Compliance**

We monitor the compliance of participating doctors and service providers and
investigate any complaints we receive.

Where we determine there has been a breach of the AMDS program guidelines, we
will ask the service provider to formally respond. We will then work with them
to achieve compliance.

Where serious and ongoing breaches have occurred, we may terminate a service
provider’s participation in the program.

## **If you think someone has breached the guidelines**

If you believe a doctor has breached the [AMDS program
guidelines](/resources/publications/approved-medical-deputising-services-amds-
program-guidelines "Approved Medical Deputising Services \(AMDS\) program
guidelines"), you should talk to the service provider in the first instance.

If you believe a service provider has breached the guidelines, you can [report
this](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-
suspected-fraud "Reporting incorrect billing, claiming, or suspected fraud").
We treat all reports confidentially.

For privacy reasons, we do not disclose the outcome of a complaint.

## **Contact**

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program contact
](/contacts/approved-medical-deputising-services-amds-program-
contact?language=en)

Contact us for information about the Approved Medical Deputising (AMDS)
program or to submit an application.

[amds@health.gov.au](mailto:amds@health.gov.au)

Last updated:

24 November 2021

Tags:

  * [Health workforce](/topics/health-workforce)
  * [Rural health workforce](/topics/rural-health-workforce)
  * [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program](/our-work/amds)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Approved Medical Deputising Services (AMDS) program](/our-work/amds)

  * [About the AMDS](/our-work/amds/about)
  * [For doctors](/our-work/amds/for-doctors)
  * [For services](/our-work/amds/for-services)
  * [Guidelines and compliance](/our-work/amds/guidelines-compliance)
  * [Resources](/our-work/amds/resources)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

