Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Our work](/our-work)
  3. [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)
  4. [Bowel screening for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous)

[For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/national-bowel-
cancer-screening-program/indigenous)

# Closing the gap with bowel cancer screening

Participating health professionals can now give bowel screening kits directly
to their Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander patients. This is in addition
to the standard mail out model.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Closing the gap with bowel cancer screening&url=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous/alternative-access)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous/alternative-access)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Closing the gap with bowel cancer screening&body=https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous/alternative-access)

Loading...

On this page

## **Closing the gap with bowel cancer screening**

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have lower participation rates in
the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program. In 2018–2019, 27% of Indigenous
Australian’s participated, compared with 43% of non-Indigenous Australians.

This means First Nations people are more at risk of having late-stage cancer
by the time they are diagnosed which is much more difficult to treat
successfully.

To address some of the barriers First Nations people face when trying to
screen, we tried a different way of getting screening tests to them. Health
care workers or doctors gave the test kits directly to Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander patients and explained how to do the test.

[We trialled this alternate approach](/our-work/national-indigenous-bowel-
screening-pilot "National Indigenous Bowel Screening Pilot") with 44
Indigenous health services across Australia. Run by the [Menzies School of
Health Research](https://www.menzies.edu.au/), it was found that this
alternate way of distributing kits closed the participation gap. This
alternative access model is now available more broadly.

Read the final report on the [National Indigenous Bowel Screening
Pilot](/resources/publications/final-report-on-the-national-indigenous-bowel-
screening-pilot "Final report on the National Indigenous Bowel Screening
Pilot").

## ****A** **lternative access to kits** **model****

The alternative access to kits model is helping remove barriers that prevent
some people from participating in the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program.

We are phasing this model in from 31 October 2022. Learn more about the
[alternative access to kits](/node/22686#alternative-access-to-kits) model.

## ****Resources****

Learn more about how the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program alternative
access model works, and links to culturally appropriate resources:

  * [for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander families and communities](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous/families "Bowel screening information for Indigenous families and communities")
  * [for health professionals](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous/health-professionals "For health professionals with Indigenous patients"). 

Last updated:

19 September 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  * [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [National Bowel Cancer Screening Program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-
screening-program)

  * [About the program](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/about-the-national-bowel-cancer-screening-program)
  * [Doing a bowel screening test](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/doing-a-bowel-screening-test)
  * [For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous)
    * [Closing the gap with bowel cancer screening](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous/alternative-access)
    * [Information for families and communities](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous/families)
    * [For health professionals with Indigenous patients](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/indigenous/health-professionals)
  * [Your stories](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/your-stories-about-bowel-cancer-screening)
  * [Managing bowel screening for participants](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/managing-bowel-screening-for-participants)
  * [Alternative access to kits](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/alternative-access-to-bowel-screening-kits-for-healthcare-providers)
  * [Resources](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/bowel-cancer-screening-resources)
  * [News](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program-news)
  * [Contacts](/our-work/national-bowel-cancer-screening-program/bowel-cancer-screening-contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

