Find updated information on the [coronavirus (COVID-19) health
alert](https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19)

Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to local navigation

  * __Follow
    * [__Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau)
    * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
    * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
    * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
    * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/rss-feed?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=header)

Search __ Search

[Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](https://www.health.gov.au "Australian Government Department of Health
and Aged Care")
![](/internet/r/publishing.nsf/AttachmentsByTitle/crest/$FILE/crest-
horizontal-small-dark.png)

The Department of Health and Aged Care

Search __ Search

  * [__ Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-1)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-1)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes)
    * [Health products and medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-1)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-1)
    * [Industrial chemicals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/ohp_nicnas_review.htm)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-index.htm)
    * [Mental Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Mental+Health+and+Wellbeing-1)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-1)
    * [National Rural Health Commissioner](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/National-Rural-Health-Commissioner)
    * [Norfolk Island](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/norfolk-is)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative%20care)
    * [Pharmacy](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/consumer-pharmacy)
    * [Primary Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/primarycare)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-1)
    * [Healthier Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/healthiermedicare)
    * [Health Warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [For Health Professionals __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
    * [Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Aboriginal+and+Torres+Strait+Islander+Health-1lp)
    * [Conditions and Diseases](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Conditions+and+Diseases-2)
    * [Education and Prevention](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Education+and+Prevention-2)
    * [Ethical Research](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-ethics-index.htm)
    * [Gene Technology](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Gene+Technology-2)
    * [Genomics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/genomics-1)
    * [Health Provider Compliance](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-compliance)
    * [Health Products and Medicines](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+products+and+medicines-2)
    * [Health Thesaurus](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-thesaurus.htm)
    * [Health Workforce](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Workforce-2)
    * [Health Care Homes](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-care-homes-professional)
    * [Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-medicarebenefits-healthpro)
    * [My Health Record](https://myhealthrecord.gov.au/internet/mhr/publishing.nsf/content/home)
    * [National Men's and Women's Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/national-mens-and-womens-health-2)
    * [Palliative Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/palliative-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=palliative-care)
    * [Public and private healthcare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Healthcare+systems-2)
    * [PBS Approved Suppliers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-approved-supplier-administrative-functions)
    * [Regulation and Red Tape Reduction](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/regulation-and-red-tape-reduction)
    * [Rural and Regional Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Rural+Health-1)
    * [Services](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Services-2)
    * [A Strong and Sustainable Medicare](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/strongmedicare)
    * [Health warnings](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Health+Warnings-1)
  * [About us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
    * [Digital Health](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/eHealth)
    * [Programs & Initiatives](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/programs-initiatives-menu)
    * [Campaign Certification Statements](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/campaign_certification_statements-lp)
  * [Resources __](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)
    * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm)
    * [Research & Statistics](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Research+&+Statistics-1)
  * [ Ageing & Aged Care](https://www.health.gov.au/health-topics/aged-care?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ageing%20%26%20aged%20care )

  * You are here:
  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) /
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1) /
  * [Publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) /

# Publications

A listing of publications, sorted by A-Z and topics, on the Australian
Government Department of Health websites.

 __Page last updated: 29 May 2023 (this page is generated automatically and
reflects updates to other content within the website)

## **Health has a new website!**

More of this sort of information is available on our [new
site](https://www.health.gov.au/resources?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=callout-
auto-custom&utm_campaign=digital_transformation).

  

### Need help?

[Contact us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us).

## By Title

View publications by title beginning with...

  * [A](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-A "View publications with titles beginning with A")
  * [B](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-B "View publications with titles beginning with B")
  * [C](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-C "View publications with titles beginning with C")
  * [D](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-D "View publications with titles beginning with D")
  * [E](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-E "View publications with titles beginning with E")
  * [F](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-F "View publications with titles beginning with F")
  * [G](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-G "View publications with titles beginning with G")
  * [H](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-H "View publications with titles beginning with H")
  * [I](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-I "View publications with titles beginning with I")
  * [J](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-J "View publications with titles beginning with J")
  * [K](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-K "View publications with titles beginning with K")
  * [L](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-L "View publications with titles beginning with L")
  * [M](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-M "View publications with titles beginning with M")
  * [N](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-N "View publications with titles beginning with N")
  * [O](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-O "View publications with titles beginning with O")
  * [P](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-P "View publications with titles beginning with P")
  * [Q](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Q "View publications with titles beginning with Q")
  * [R](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-R "View publications with titles beginning with R")
  * [S](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-S "View publications with titles beginning with S")
  * [T](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-T "View publications with titles beginning with T")
  * [U](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-U "View publications with titles beginning with U")
  * [V](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-V "View publications with titles beginning with V")
  * [W](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-W "View publications with titles beginning with W")
  * [X](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-X "View publications with titles beginning with X")
  * [Y](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Y "View publications with titles beginning with Y")
  * [Z](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-Z "View publications with titles beginning with Z")
  * [0 - 9](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-0-9 "View publications with titles beginning with numerals")

## By Health Topic

View publications by health topic

select a topic...Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander HealthAlcoholAnnual
reportsAntibiotic resistanceArthritisAsthmaAutismBlood and Blood
productsBreastfeedingBudgetCancerCardiovascular diseasesCarersCasemixChild
healthChronic diseaseClinical TrialsCommunicable diseasesCouncilsDental
healthDiabetesDiagnostic imagingDiseases and conditionsDrugsDrugs and
substance abusee-HealthEmergency managementEnvironmental healthExerciseEye
healthFood standardsFraudGeneral practiceGP Super ClinicsGrantsHealth care
systemsHealth insuranceHealth personnelHealth promotionHealth TechnologyHealth
workforceHearingHepatitis BHepatitis CHIVHIV/AIDSHormonesHospitalsIllegal
drugsImmunisationInfant HealthInfluenzaInjury preventionLegislationMaternal
HealthMedical indemnityMedical Treatment OverseasMedicareMedicinal
cannabisMen's healthMental healthMidwivesNursingNutritionObesityOncologyOrgan
and tissue donationPalliative carePandemicPathologyPersonally controlled
electronic health recordsPharmaceutical benefitsPharmacyPhysical
activityPrescribed drugsPrimary health carePrivate Health
InsuranceProfessional indemnityPublic awarenessRadiationRegulation and Red
Tape ReductionResearch and developmentRural health servicesSexual HealthSpeech
pathologySportStatisticsSuicide preventionTobaccoWomen's healthYouth health

* * *

Alternatively [view all 628
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/publications-all) or the
[most recently added
publications](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-publicat.htm) on
this website.

## Currently displaying the 10 most recently added publications:

Publication| Year| Status| Health topics  
---|---|---|---  
  
### [Requirements for the Communication of High Risk Pathology Results (First
Edition 2020)](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-npaac-docs-high-
risk-pathology-results-2021 "Requirements for the Communication of High Risk
Pathology Results \(First Edition 2020\)")

This is a publication for the National Pathology Accreditation Advisory
Council (NPAAC) which is managed by the Australian Government Department of
Health and outlines the supervision requirements for medical laboratories.

| 2021| Current|  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas:
Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF) Complaints Committee: 2019 –
2020](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-19-20-Annual-
Report-of-the-Marketing-in-Australia-of-Infant-Formula "Annual Report of the
Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers
Agreement \(MAIF\) Complaints Committee: 2019 – 2020")

2019 - 2020 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Tribunal (the Tribunal)

| 2021| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Sport and Recreation Ministers' Meeting Communiqué, Townsville, 13 March
2020](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/MSRM-Communique-March-2020 "Sport
and Recreation Ministers' Meeting Communiqué, Townsville, 13 March 2020")

Sport and Recreation Ministers' Meeting Communiqué, Townsville, 13 March 2020

| 2020| Current|

  * [Sport](publications-Sport)

  
  
### [Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemiology reports, Australia,
2020–2023](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/novel_coronavirus_2019_ncov_weekly_epidemiology_reports_australia_2020.htm
"Coronavirus disease 2019 \(COVID-19\) epidemiology reports, Australia,
2020–2023")

This page contains links to epidemiological reports, published in CDI, on the
incidence, severity, and distribution of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
[previously known as novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)] within Australia.

| 2020| Current|  
  
### [Communicable Diseases Intelligence - Call for
papers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/cdi-call-for-papers.htm
"Communicable Diseases Intelligence - Call for papers")

 _Communicable Diseases Intelligence_ (CDI) is a peer-reviewed scientific
journal published by the Office of Health Protection, Department of Health.
The journal aims to disseminate information on the epidemiology, surveillance,
prevention and control of communicable diseases of relevance to Australia.

| 2019| Current|

  * [Communicable diseases](publications-Communicable diseases)
  * [Diseases and conditions](publications-Diseases and conditions)

  
  
### [Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas:
Manufacturers and Importers Agreement (MAIF) Complaints Committee: 2018 –
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/phd-brfeed-apmaif-18-19-Annual-
Report-of-the-Marketing-in-Australia-of-Infant-Formula "Annual Report of the
Marketing in Australia of Infant Formulas: Manufacturers and Importers
Agreement \(MAIF\) Complaints Committee: 2018 – 2019")

2018 - 2019 Annual Report of the Marketing in Australia of Infant Formula
Complaints Committee

| 2019| Current|

  * [Annual reports](publications-Annual reports)

  
  
### [Sport and Recreation Ministers' Meeting Communiqué, Adelaide 1 November
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/MSRM-Communique-November-2019
"Sport and Recreation Ministers' Meeting Communiqué, Adelaide 1 November
2019")

Summary of the Sport and Recreation Ministers' Meeting for the 1 November 2019

| 2019| Current|

  * [Sport](publications-Sport)

  
  
### [Sport and Recreation Ministers' Meeting Communiqué, Adelaide 5 April
2019](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/MSRM-Communique-April-2019 "Sport
and Recreation Ministers' Meeting Communiqué, Adelaide 5 April 2019")

Summary of the Sport and Recreation Ministers' Meeting for the 5 April 2019

| 2019| Current|

  * [Sport](publications-Sport)

  
  
### [Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Midwives
report](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/australias-future-health-
workforce-midwife-report "Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Midwives
report")

Australia’s Future Health Workforce – Midwives report presents long-term,
national workforce projections for midwives to 2030.

| 2019| Current|  
  
### [Report: Economic and social impacts of recreational hunting and
shooting](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/economic-and-social-impacts-
of-recreational-hunting-and-shooting "Report: Economic and social impacts of
recreational hunting and shooting")

| 2019| Current|  
  
  * Feedback

Provide feedback **If you would like a response please complete our[enquiries
form](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us/general-enquiries)**.

  

Comments

Comments will be used to improve web content and will **not** be responded to.

### Real person check

Enter the **third** , **fourth** and **last** digits of 951433

This form uses a CAPTCHA to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead
of a machine or automated software.

* * *

Submit feedback [__Privacy
statement](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/privacy_security.htm)

×

### Your feedback has been submitted

__

Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make
improvements to this website.

# Department of Health and Aged Care

[Department of Health and Aged
Care](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/home)

© Commonwealth of Australia  
ABN: 83 605 426 759

## health.gov.au sections

  * [Home](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
  * [Ministers](https://www.health.gov.au/ministers?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=ministers)
  * [For Consumers](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Consumers-1)
  * [For Health Professionals](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/For+Health+Professionals-1)
  * [About Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=about%20us)
  * [Media Centre](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=media%20centre)
  * [Programs & Campaigns](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Programs+&+Campaigns-1)
  * [Resources](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Publications+Statistics+&+Resources-1)

## Quick Links

  * [Jobs](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/work-with-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=jobs)
  * [Consultations](https://consultations.health.gov.au)
  * [Tenders and Grants](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/what-we-do/grants-and-tenders?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=tenders%20and%20grants)
  * [Budget](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/budgets?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=budget)
  * [Annual Reports](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/annual-reports?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=annual%20reports)
  * [Reporting Suspected Fraud](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/report-suspected-fraud?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=reporting%20suspected%20fraud)

## Tools

  * [A-Z Index](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/A-Z)
  * [A-Z Forms](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-forms.htm)
  * [Site Map](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/sitemap)
  * [Acronyms & Glossary](/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Glossary)
  * [Subscription](https://www.health.gov.au/media-centre?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=subscription)

## About

  * [Contact Us](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/contact-us?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=contact%20us)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/accessibility?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=accessibility)
  * [Privacy](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/privacy?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=privacy)
  * [Disclaimer](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/disclaimer?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=disclaimer)
  * [Copyright](https://www.health.gov.au/using-our-websites/copyright?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=copyright)
  * [Senate Order Contracts](https://www.health.gov.au/about-us/corporate-reporting/senate-order-listings?utm_source=health.gov.au&utm_medium=site-nav-footer&utm_campaign=digital_transformation&utm_content=senate%20order%20contracts)

### Follow us

  * [__LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/15066)
  * [__Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau)
  * [__YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau)
  * [__Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118195479404088553156/posts)
  * [__Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/healthgovau/)
  * [__RSS](https://www.health.gov.au/news/rss.xml)

