Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)
  4. [Medicare compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

[Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)

# Non-compliance debts and penalties

You must repay any incorrect payments made to you under Medicare. You might
also have to pay additional penalties. How you work with us can decrease or
increase any penalty amount.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Non-compliance debts and penalties&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Non-compliance debts and penalties&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)

Loading...

On this page

## **What a compliance debt is**

A compliance debt is what you owe us if you received a payment for a claim you
made that does not meet all the requirements of the:

  * [Medicare Benefits Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home) (MBS)
  * [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home) (PBS)
  * [Child Dental Benefits Schedule](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/child-dental-benefits-schedule) (CDBS)
  * [Practitioner Incentives Program](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/organisations/health-professionals/services/medicare/practice-incentives-program) (PIP).

You are legally responsible for repaying any such payments made to you and may
have to pay an additional penalty.

### Administrative penalties

We can apply administrative penalties to unpaid debts. The amount depends on
if and when you tell us about an incorrect payment. A penalty may apply to any
amount owing (the debt accrued). However, no penalty will apply to [voluntary
acknowledgements](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-
incorrect-payments "Voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect payments").

### **Civil penalties**

A civil penalty is like a fine. The Federal Court can impose a penalty on an
individual or corporation who:

  * is responsible for documents relating to claimed services
  * did not provide the service themselves
  * has not complied with a notice to produce documents
  * has seriously breached the prohibited practices provisions.

## **When a debt can be raised**

You will have a compliance debt to us if you receive a payment for a claim
that does not meet all legal requirements, whether it happened on purpose or
by accident.

## **How you will know you have a debt**

You might realise you received an incorrect payment, in which case you should
make a [voluntary acknowledgement](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-
acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments "Voluntary acknowledgement of incorrect
payments") as soon as possible.

We might also find incorrect payment through our routine compliance
activities. In these cases, we will contact you.

## **Shared Debt Recovery Scheme**

You can request for your debt to be split with the person who manages your
billing and claiming under the [Shared Debt Recovery Scheme](/our-work/shared-
debt-recovery-scheme "Shared Debt Recovery Scheme"), if you think this person
is responsible for the incorrect claim.

## **How to pay a compliance debt**

We will send you an invoice for the amount to be repaid within 28 days. You
have various payment options. Make sure you include the invoice, reference
number and account number when making a payment.

## **Failure to pay**

If you are unable to repay the debt in full by the due date, [contact
us](/node/42697#contact) as soon as possible. We can consider other options to
help you pay your debt.

If you don’t contact us and haven’t paid the full invoice amount by the due
date, we can:

  * apply interest charges to your debt
  * set off the debt against your future payments
  * issue information-gathering notices to third parties to ascertain your location and financial information
  * garnish amounts from people who owe you money
  * initiate legal action.

## **Contact**

![](/themes/custom/hga/images/contact-aus-gov.png)

###  [ Health Provider Compliance Officer ](/contacts/health-provider-
compliance-officer?language=en)

If you have any questions about a Medicare debt, or need to make payment
arrangements, contact a Health Provider Compliance Officer.

[BIDHDrecovery@health.gov.au](mailto:BIDHDrecovery@health.gov.au)

[02 6289 9390](tel:02 6289 9390)

Last updated:

7 February 2023

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
    * [About](/topics/medicare/compliance/about)
    * [When it applies](/topics/medicare/compliance/when-it-applies)
    * [How to comply](/topics/medicare/compliance/how-to-comply)
    * [Our compliance activities](/topics/medicare/compliance/our-activities)
    * [Voluntary acknowledgement](/topics/medicare/compliance/voluntary-acknowledgement-of-incorrect-payments)
    * [Debts and penalties](/topics/medicare/compliance/debts-and-penalties)
    * [Reporting incorrect billing or claiming, or suspected fraud](/topics/medicare/compliance/reporting-incorrect-billing-claiming-or-suspected-fraud)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

