Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicines](/topics/medicines)
  4. [Access to medicines](/topics/medicines/access)

[Access to medicines](/topics/medicines/access)

# Other ways to access medicines

There are many ways to access medicines if there are no pharmacies where you
live, or if they are unavailable in pharmacies, in short supply, or not listed
on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) or the Australian Register of
Therapeutic Goods (ARTG).

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Other ways to access medicines&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicines/access/other-ways-to-access)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicines/access/other-ways-to-access)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=Other ways to access medicines&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicines/access/other-ways-to-access)

Loading...

On this page

## **Alternative access arrangements**

You can access some medicines through other means under Section 100 of the
[National Health Act
1953](https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2021C00460). This includes:

  * [some restricted medicines for chronic conditions](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/browse/section-100/s100-highly-specialised-drugs)
  * [chemotherapy medicines](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/browse/section-100/chemotherapy)
  * [botulinum toxin treatments](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/section100-mf)
  * [growth hormones](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/section100-gh)
  * [in vitro fertilisation treatments](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/section100-if)
  * [opiate dependence treatments](https://www.pbs.gov.au/browse/section100-md)
  * medicines for people who live in [remote areas without pharmacies](https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/health-pbs-indigenous-info).

## **Medicines not on the PBS or ARTG**

If you have private health insurance, you might be able to access medicines
not listed on the PBS or RPBS through your extras cover policy. The amount
depends on your health fund and policy.

We support people who need medicines not listed on the
[PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/about-the-pbs),
[RPBS](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/help-cover-healthcare-
costs/manage-medicine-and-keep-costs-down/concessional) or
[ARTG](https://www.tga.gov.au/australian-register-therapeutic-goods) in
various ways:

### **Special access**

Some registered health practitioners can access unapproved medicines not
included in the [ARTG](https://www.tga.gov.au/australian-register-therapeutic-
goods) in certain situations under the:

  * [Special Access Scheme](https://www.tga.gov.au/form/special-access-scheme) – for a single patient with a particular condition
  * [Authorised Prescriber Scheme](https://www.tga.gov.au/form/authorised-prescribers) – for a class of patients with a particular condition.

### **Medicinal cannabis**

While the [TGA](https://www.tga.gov.au/medicinal-cannabis) regulates the
access of [medicinal cannabis](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/medicinal-
cannabis), most medicinal cannabis products are considered as being
'unapproved' medicines. 'Unapproved' medicines have not been assessed by the
TGA for safety, quality or effectiveness.

You can access medicinal cannabis with a prescription from a health
practitioner who will need to apply to the TGA through the [Special Access
Scheme](https://www.tga.gov.au/form/special-access-scheme) or [Authorised
Prescriber Scheme](https://www.tga.gov.au/form/authorised-prescribers).

Your prescriber might also need to apply to the relevant state and territory
health department.

Once you have a prescription, go to your pharmacist, who will order it in for
you – this could take a day or 2.

The laws for prescribing medicinal cannabis are different in each state and
territory. Prescribers should understand [the laws that apply in their state
or territory](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/medicinal-cannabis).

The [Office of Drug Control](https://www.odc.gov.au/medicinal-cannabis)
regulates the cultivation, production and manufacture of medicinal cannabis
products for commercial cultivators, manufacturers and industry.

### **Life-saving medicines**

The [Life Saving Drugs Program](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/life-saving-drugs-program) provides fully subsidised access to
expensive essential medicines for eligible patients with rare and life-
threatening conditions.

The program currently funds 16 medicines that help to treat 10 rare
conditions.

### **Clinical trials**

Clinical trials are an important part of the testing process to determine
whether new treatments work and are safe to use. Patients can be some of the
first to access [new and emerging unapproved
medicines](https://www.australianclinicaltrials.gov.au/) through clinical
trials.

### **Importing unapproved medicines**

In some circumstances, you can [import a 3-month
supply](https://www.tga.gov.au/personal-importation-scheme) of unapproved
medicines into Australia for personal use, under the Personal Importation
Scheme.

There are customs requirements to do this, and you might need a permit.

## **During medicine shortages**

We have measures in place to [manage medicine
shortages](/node/36865#supporting-adequate-supply-of-medicines). If your
medicine is in short supply, check with your health practitioner or pharmacist
as a first step. There are several ways to get medicines during a shortage,
including:

  * accessing an overseas medicine approved [under section 19A](https://www.tga.gov.au/ws-s19a-index)
  * [substituting medicines](https://www.tga.gov.au/substituting-scarce-medicines)
  * accessing an unapproved medicine under the [Special Access Scheme](https://www.tga.gov.au/form/special-access-scheme)
  * importing medicine under the [Personal Importation Scheme](https://www.tga.gov.au/personal-importation-scheme).

Read more about how to [access medicines during a
shortage](https://www.tga.gov.au/accessing-medicines-during-shortage).

## **Government workers overseas**

Employees of the Australian Government or a state or territory government
working overseas – and their dependants – can access
[PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/about-the-pbs) or
[RPBS](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/help-cover-healthcare-
costs/manage-medicine-and-keep-costs-down/concessional) medicines by:

  * taking them out of Australia when travelling
  * having them [sent from Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/posting-pbs-medicine-overseas?context=22016).

To do this, you must:

  * be eligible for [PBS](https://www.pbs.gov.au/info/about-the-pbs) or [RPBS](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/help-cover-healthcare-costs/manage-medicine-and-keep-costs-down/concessional) medicines in Australia
  * have a valid [Medicare](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-card), [veteran](https://www.dva.gov.au/health-and-treatment/veteran-healthcare-cards/veteran-card) or other entitlement card
  * not exceed [Australia’s export restrictions](https://www.tga.gov.au/resource/export-medicines-australia) on maximum quantities for PBS and controlled medicines
  * check import restrictions in the overseas country.

Last updated:

23 June 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicines](/topics/medicines)

  * [About medicines](/topics/medicines/about-medicines)
  * [About prescriptions](/topics/medicines/about-prescriptions)
  * [Access to medicines](/topics/medicines/access)
    * [Other ways to access medicines](/topics/medicines/access/other-ways-to-access)
  * [Cost of medicines](/topics/medicines/cost)
  * [Safe use of medicines](/topics/medicines/safe-use)
  * [Medication management for health practitioners](/topics/medicines/medication-management-for-health-practitioners)
  * [What we do](/topics/medicines/what-we-do)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicines/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicines/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicines/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicines/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

