Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Health Portfolio Ministers](/sites/default/files/2023-02/government-coat-
of-arms.png) ](/ "Home")

Ministers Department of Health and Aged Care

Menu

Close

  * [Home](/ministers)
  * [Media centre](/ministers/media-centre)
  * [Mark Butler](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  * [Anika Wells](/ministers/the-hon-anika-wells-mp)
  * [Ged Kearney](/ministers/the-hon-ged-kearney-mp)
  * [Emma McBride](/ministers/the-hon-emma-mcbride-mp)
  * [Malarndirri McCarthy](/ministers/senator-the-hon-malarndirri-mccarthy)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/ministers)
  2. [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)
  3. [Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

[Minister Butler's media](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media)

# PBAC backs ongoing access to low-dose asthma puffer for Aussie kids

The independent, expert group advising the Australian Government on
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) medications has reviewed its
recommendation to put tighter controls around an important asthma medication
for children.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=PBAC backs ongoing access to low-dose asthma puffer for Aussie kids&url=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/pbac-backs-ongoing-access-to-low-dose-asthma-puffer-for-aussie-kids)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/pbac-backs-ongoing-access-to-low-dose-asthma-puffer-for-aussie-kids)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=PBAC backs ongoing access to low-dose asthma puffer for Aussie kids&body=https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/pbac-backs-ongoing-access-to-low-dose-asthma-puffer-for-aussie-kids)

Loading...

![](/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/the-hon-mark-butler-
mp_0.jpg?itok=3-uBgFI7)

**The Hon Mark Butler MP**  
Minister for Health and Aged Care

Media event date:

12 May 2023

Date published:

12 May 2023

Media type:

Media release

Audience:

General public

The independent, expert group advising the Australian Government on
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) medications has reviewed its
recommendation to put tighter controls around an important asthma medication
for children.  
  
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) had previously
recommended 50mcg Axotide Junior and Flixotide Junior (fluticasone propionate)
be:

  * restricted to children aged 6 years and under
  * be initially prescribed by a respiratory specialist
  * only prescribed with authority approval by Medicare

These changes were made to the PBS on 1 April.

Following representations from health professionals and advocacy groups the
Minister wrote to PBAC respectfully asking them to review their decision.

At this month’s meeting, the PBAC acknowledged the concerns related to the
restrictions, particularly for families living in rural and remote areas, as
well as from clinicians, and has now recommended children.

The PBAC has recommended removing the limitations requiring specialist
prescribing, and again allowing patients to receive a prescription from their
GP.

Department of Health and Aged Care officials will now work with the supplier,
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd, to finalise the revised listing details,
and the Government will make further announcements when agreement is reached.

Since 1 July 2022, the Government has approved additional funding for 85 new
and amended items on the PBS.

The recommendation regarding Axotide Junior and Flixotide Junior comes as the
2023-24 Budget commits $2.2 billion to the PBS, and the Government effectively
halves the cost of more than 300 PBS listed medicines by doubling the amount
patients can buy at a time.  
  
**Quotes attributable to Minister Butler:**

“I wrote to the PBAC in May – after health professionals and advocacy groups
raised concerns with my office – and asked them to take another look at these
issues.

“I am pleased that the PBAC has now reconsidered its advice about Fluxotide Jr
and Axotide Jr and now patients will now be able to get their prescription
from their GP.

“The original recommendation led to unintended consequences for GPs and
families and young children who have limited access to alternative asthma
treatment.”

Tags:

  * [Drugs](/topics/drugs)

Related ministers:

  * [The Hon Mark Butler MP](/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

