Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Self-collection for the Cervical Screening Test
logo](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Self-collection for the Cervical Screening Test

Close

# Self-collection for the Cervical Screening Test

All cervical screening participants now have the choice to self-collect their
own Cervical Screening Test sample. A self-collected sample is taken from the
vagina and is checked for human papillomavirus (HPV) – a common infection that
causes almost all cervical cancers.

![Yes, it’s this
easy](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/3images_2.png?itok=izaccLWo)

## Yes, it's that easy

## Prevention is in your hands

If you are eligible and want to collect your own sample, your healthcare
provider will give you a swab and instructions.

A self-collected sample is taken from the vagina so you don’t need to worry
about reaching the cervix or ‘getting the right spot’. All you need to do is
insert a swab a few centimetres into your vagina and rotate it for 20 to 30
seconds.

You will be given a private space, such as a bathroom, to collect your sample.

View the [detailed instructions](/node/8096).

[ ![National Cervical Screening Program - Cervical screening
explained](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/images/videos/2022/07/your-
cervical-screening-test.jpg?itok=tX8n7IBF) ]()

1:55

Transcript

[Music]

There are just a few steps to collect your own cervical screening test sample

Collecting your own sample is safe and accurate

Your healthcare provider will explain how to take your own sample and you can
ask them for help and advice anytime

They can give you advice without looking and if you make a mistake that's okay
you can ask to start again

Have a look at the self collection swap it might not look exactly like this
one but you should see one end that you can hold and another end for taking
the sample

Don't open it just yet

When you've been given a private space to do the test find a comfortable spot
and pull down or take off your underwear

Twist the cap and remove the swab from the packaging

Be careful to only hold it by the cap and don't put it down on anything

If you accidentally drop it or the swab touches something you can ask for
another one

The swab has a line or a mark to show you how far to insert it

Gently insert the swab into your vagina a few centimeters up to the line

Rotate it gently for 10 to 30 seconds this might be a bit uncomfortable but it
shouldn't hurt

Remove the swab replace it in the packaging and seal the whole thing up and
that's it.

Get dressed and then return the self-collection swab to your healthcare
provider

You can talk to them about what happens next and how you'll get your results

## Cara, 36, self-collected her Cervical Screening Test sample

Cara, aged 36, attended her GP for a routine appointment. During that
appointment, her doctor talked to her about cervical screening. After
explaining the purpose and importance of regular screening, her GP asked Cara
whether she would be comfortable using the self-collection method to take a
sample.

‘I didn’t even realise it was an option to do it myself, until my doctor
offered it as a choice. He explained the process to me in a really clear, no
fuss way. This made me feel really confident to self-collect’.

Cara’s doctor provided her with clear instructions and gave her a private
space to take her own sample.

‘I was able to use a private space and lock the door and didn’t feel rushed at
all. I really appreciated how comfortable I was made to feel. It was actually
quite empowering.’

The self-collection process was quick and easy for Cara.

‘Because my doctor was so reassuring about my ability to self-collect, and the
quality of the results that will come back, I found the whole experience
really positive. I will definitely choose to self-collect again.’

![Self-collection for the Cervical Screening
Test](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/kos_cervical_cancer_ladiessmall.png?itok=nIX1VYjh)

## Yes, it’s accurate

Evidence shows a Cervical Screening Test using a self-collected sample from
your vagina is just as accurate at detecting HPV as a clinician-collected
sample taken from the cervix during a speculum examination.

## **Who is eligible for self-collection?**

Self-collection is available to all people eligible for a Cervical Screening
Test – that is people who:

  * are aged between 25 and 74
  * have had any type of sexual contact
  * are a woman / person with a cervix
  * are due or overdue for routine cervical screening

When due, you should get a Cervical Screening Test even if you:

  * have had the HPV vaccine
  * are not currently or are no longer sexually active
  * have had the same partner for a long time or only had one partner
  * are gay, lesbian, or bisexual,
  * are transgender or non-binary with a cervix
  * are pregnant
  * have had a baby
  * have been through menopause
  * feel healthy and have no symptoms.

Because self-collection looks for HPV only – not cervical cell abnormalities –
it is generally not appropriate for people who have [symptoms
](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/cervical-cancer)of cervical cancer or if you
are experiencing unusual bleeding, pain or discharge.

You should speak to your doctor about whether self-collect is the right option
for you.

## **Cervical screening could save your life**

About 800 women are diagnosed with cervical cancer in Australia each year, and
about 70% of these cases occur in women who have never screened or were not
up-to-date with their screening.

Having regular screening tests is the best way to protect yourself.

If someone you love is eligible and has never screened or hasn’t screened for
some time, encourage them to do their cervical screening.

![Self-collection for the Cervical Screening
Test](/sites/default/files/styles/h_content_max_width_no_upscale/public/kos431_sarah_and_chow_transparentsmall.png?itok=blQubV5c)

## **How to book**

Cervical screening – including self-collection – is facilitated by a doctor,
nurse or health worker with a rebate for the test provided through Medicare.

Contact your GP or healthcare provider to check if you're due or overdue for a
Cervical Screening Test. If you’re due, make a booking with them.

If you don’t have a preferred healthcare provider, [health
direct](http://www.healthdirect.gov.au/) can help you find a healthcare
provider to book your test with.

The National Cancer Screening Register sends invitation and reminder letters
to participants who are due for cervical screening and other follow-up tests.
You can view and manage your personal information on the Register (including
finding out when you are next due for cervical screening) through the
Participant Portal. The Participant Portal is available through myGov at
my.gov.au – just link your account to the Register. You can also call the
Register on 1800 627 701.

## **Wiradjuri grandmother Marcia talks about taking her own sample**

When she arrived for her appointment as her local Aboriginal Medical Clinic, a
nurse showed her behind a screen, and Marcia took it from there.

‘After I made the choice, the only thing that worried me was that I wouldn’t
do it properly,’ she recalls. ‘But the instructions were very clear and easy
to follow, so that made me feel better about it.

‘I’d say it was much quicker and more comfortable than doing the old Pap test,
and I liked that I could do it in private.’

Marcia wants others to know how important it is to do the test, for yourself
and your family.

‘I’m glad I’ve done the test. It’s really important to me to show my daughters
and their babies that we have access to choices that can prevent disease, and
we should take them,’ she reflects.

‘My mother’s generation didn’t talk about this stuff much. I want to reverse
that trend and be open about women’s health, especially with my daughters.
They’re proud that I want to take care of myself and be fit and healthy into
the future. And I want to be around to see my grandbabies grow up and be happy
and healthy.’

## **Some FAQs about self-collection**

**How do I do a self-collected Cervical Screening Test**

You should speak to your healthcare provider about your cervical screening
options. If you decide collecting your own sample is the best option for you,
your healthcare provider will give you a swab and instructions on [how to
collect your
sample](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-cervical-
screening-program-how-to-collect-your-own-sample?language=en). If you don’t
have a preferred healthcare provider, you can visit the health direct
[website](http://www.healthdirect.gov.au) to help you find one.

**Do I have to do self-collect? Can I still have the doctor collect my
sample?**

Self-collection is an option. You can choose either self-collection or
clinician-collection for your Cervical Screening Test.

You can continue to have your Cervical Screening Test done by your chosen
healthcare provider using a speculum examination.

If you think you may have difficulty collecting a vaginal sample by yourself
and would prefer a sample be collected without the use of a speculum, you can
also ask your healthcare provider to help you do a self-collected Cervical
Screening Test.

**Why is a doctor still involved in the process if it’s self-collected?**

Healthcare providers play a critical role in supporting patients with cervical
screening, including for self-collection.

If you choose self-collection you will be given a private space to collect the
sample, for example behind a curtain or in a bathroom.

Having a healthcare provider involved in the process is important because they
can:

  * explain how to collect the sample
  * give you support or help in collecting the sample (if you need and want it)
  * organise and explain your results
  * support you with any follow-up appointments you may need
  * answer any questions you may have

**How do I know I am getting the right spot/my cervix?**

The Cervical Screening Test detects HPV before it has the chance to develop
into abnormal or cancerous cells. HPV can be detected from inside the vagina,
so there is no need to access the cervix.

Your healthcare provider can give you the support you need to make sure the
test is performed correctly.

**What happens if my self-collected test comes back positive for HPV?**

If HPV is found in your self-collected Cervical Screening Test results, your
healthcare provider will recommend you return so they can investigate further.

**Will self-collection kits be mailed out to everyone?**

No. The National Cervical Screening Program is not delivering a home mail-out
program at this time. Self-collection must be ordered and overseen by a
healthcare provider. This means you still require a consultation with a
healthcare provider (for example a GP) to receive the self-collection test.

## **Resources**

**Cervical Cancer Awareness Video**

[ ![Cervical Cancer Awareness
Video](/sites/default/files/styles/h_video_16_9_featured/public/2023-04/cervical-
cancer-awareness-video.png?itok=TnH2B0dI) ]()

4:20

Transcript

Hey, I'm Sarah Marie Cameron, a comedian, presenter and ambassador for the
Australian Cervical Cancer Foundation. We know how important cervical
screenings can be, but unfortunately a lot of people aren't up to date with
them, or they might find them too confronting. But the great news is there's
now self-collection, and it's so easy to book at your local clinic as well. So
please make sure that you and your loved ones are up to date with your
cervical screening. What can people expect when they're coming for a cervical
screening? That's a really good question. So, the appointment will start with
the clinician just asking you some questions. They will wanna know a little
bit about your history so they might ask some questions about your sexual
health, a bit of information about your periods. Speaking of questions, people
would come in here with plenty of questions. What are the most common ones?
So, there are a couple of really common questions. A lot of people seem to be
really interested at the moment about the self-collect option. The self-
collect option is just as effective as the clinician collected sample at
detecting HPV. Patients seem to be really concerned about how prepared they
are as far as whether they've shaved or waxed or whether things are normal
down there. So, I find that it's really helpful to just reassure people that
we are all different and there's so many versions of normal, and there's no
judgement about anything going on. We're just there to get the screening test
done for you. I'll show you with our model here, so you'll be given this swap
and you'll be able to go into a private space whether that's behind the
curtain or into the bathroom. Each health setting will vary, but you'll get
this swab, and you'll take it out of the tube there. You can see that little
red mark that's roughly where we want it to be inserted to. But you don't have
to go all the way, and you just want to gently insert the swab into the vagina
and then just rotating it very gently. A couple of times, usually four or five
times is good about 10 seconds and then just removing the swab and popping it
back into our tube there and then you'll give the swab back to your health
practitioner, and then they deal with the rest. And what are you actually
screening for? So, we're looking for the human papilloma virus, which is the
virus that causes almost all cervical cancer and precancerous abnormalities.
If we don't find it, you're good for five years. But if we do find HPV, we
then need other tests. What happens when someone receives a positive test? So,
if we detect HPV depending on the type you may need to just make an
appointment for colposcopy and be seen by a specialist. But more commonly,
what we need to do is we need to look at the cells from the cervix, and what
we're doing in the lab is we're looking at those cells down the microscope to
see if there are abnormalities that might indicate a precancerous, um, a
lesion that could turn into cancer. If we've had the HPV vaccination, how come
we still have to have this screening done? People who are at least 25 have a
cervix are eligible for screening, and 25-year-olds all received the four
valent vaccine that protects against the types that cause 70% of cancer. Um,
unfortunately, that does while it's great, it does mean that there's the 30%
left who are not protected, and that's why we need ongoing participation in
the screening program. Is there any difference between the swabs taken, say,
from a clinician versus now self-collection? So, for accuracy, the really good
news is that there is no difference. So, whether you take your own sample from
the vagina, or a nurse or doctor takes a sample from the cervix, the detection
of HPV and in fact leading to the detection of precancer is just as accurate.
Have we seen an increase to screening since that's been introduced? The number
of self-collected tests since the policy was changed on the first of July has
exploded, um, off what was a very, very small base. So, we're very optimistic
that that's gonna translate into increased participation rates, and I would
hope improved equity. We'd like to see everyone having a fair shot at having
this cancer prevented. So that's really fantastic, being the first country in
the world to have a self-collect system and to make it available for women.

[More Resources](https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/national-cervical-
screening-program/cervical-screening-
resources?sort_by=field_h_date_updated_value&sort_order=DESC)

  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

