Skip to main content Skip to main navigation

## Site notifications

  *     * [Coronavirus (COVID-19) health alert](/health-alerts/covid-19 "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) pandemic")
    * [Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) health alert](/health-alerts/japanese-encephalitis-virus-jev "Japanese encephalitis virus \(JEV\)")

[ ![Australian Government Department of Health and Aged
Care](/themes/custom/hga/logo.svg) ](/ "Home")

Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care

### Sub menu

  * [About us](/about-us)
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [News](/news)
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)

Search

Menu  Search

Close

  * [Home](/)
  * [Topics](/topics)
  * [Our work](/our-work)
  * [Resources](/resources)
  * [Translations](/resources/translated?f%5B0%5D=field_audience%3A451&f%5B1%5D=field_related_initiatives%3A7419)

## You are here

  1. [Home](/)
  2. [Topics](/topics)
  3. [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

[Medicare](/topics/medicare)

# About Medicare

Medicare pays for some or all of the costs of various medical services,
including services delivered in public and private hospitals. It ensures all
Australians have equitable access to health care when they need it, regardless
of where they live or their ability to pay.

  * Listen
  * Print
  * Share

    * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=About Medicare&url=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about)
    * [Facebook](https://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about)
    * [Email](mailto:?subject=About Medicare&body=https://www.health.gov.au/topics/medicare/about)

Loading...

On this page

## **What Medicare is**

Medicare is Australia’s universal health insurance scheme. It guarantees all
Australians (and some overseas visitors) access to a wide range of health and
hospital services at low or no cost.

## **Benefits of Medicare**

Medicare helps Australians with the costs of the health care they need,
regardless of where they live or their ability to pay.

## **What Medicare covers**

Medicare subsidises the costs of:

  * hospital services
  * medical services
  * tests, imaging, and scans.

Read more about [what Medicare does and does not
cover](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers "What Medicare covers").

The [Medicare Benefits
Schedule](http://www.mbsonline.gov.au/internet/mbsonline/publishing.nsf/Content/Home)
(MBS) describes the medical services, hospital services, tests, imaging and
scans subsidised by Medicare.

If you have a [Medicare card](/node/39417#how-to-access-medicare) you can
access the [Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme](https://www.pbs.gov.au/pbs/home)
(PBS) for certain subsidised medicines and other medicinal products.

Medicare also provides funding to state and territory governments for hospital
services under the [National Health Reform
Agreement](https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-
programs/2020-25-national-health-reform-agreement-nhra).

## **Eligibility for Medicare**

To be eligible for Medicare, you must:

  * be an Australian or New Zealand citizen
  * be an Australian permanent resident
  * have applied for permanent residency (some conditions apply)
  * be a temporary resident covered by a ministerial order
  * be a citizen or permanent resident of Norfolk Island, Cocos Islands, Christmas Island or Lord Howe Island.

If you’re eligible, you must [enrol in Medicare to access
benefits](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/enrolling-
medicare?context=60092). You may also be eligible if you're visiting from a
[Reciprocal Health Care
Agreement](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/reciprocal-health-care-
agreements) country.

## **How to access Medicare**

To access Medicare:

  * check whether you are [eligible](/node/39417#eligibility-for-medicare)
  * [enrol](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/individuals/subjects/how-enrol-and-get-started-medicare/enrolling-medicare) to get your Medicare card
  * set up your [Medicare online account](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-online-account) and register your [bank account details](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/getting-medicare-benefits?context=60092) to get your rebate payments
  * [claim as required](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-claim-medicare-benefit?context=60092).

Read more about [how Medicare cards and accounts
work](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-your-medicare-card-and-account-
work?context=60092).

You must present your [card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-
card) when you:

  * see a doctor
  * go to a hospital as a public patient
  * get a medical test done
  * get prescription medicines listed on the [PBS](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/pharmaceutical-benefits-scheme-pbs).

Not all health practitioners [bulk
bill](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/bulk-billing?context=60092), so
always check what you will have to pay when making your appointment.

Find out about the [cost of Medicare](/topics/medicare/about/costs "Medicare
costs").

If you don’t want to carry your card, you can download the [Express Plus
Medicare mobile app](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/express-plus-
medicare-mobile-app?context=60092) for a digital copy of your card.

You can use [My Health Record](https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au/) to access
and keep track of all your health care, tests results and medicines.

Medicare doesn’t cover all health services. Read more about [what Medicare
covers](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers "What Medicare covers").

Read more about [accessing Medicare for health practitioners and
industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry "Accessing Medicare
for health practitioners and industry").

## **Who manages Medicare**

We develop and manage national Medicare policies, and advise the Australian
Government on decisions about:

  * what services and medicines to [subsidise](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers "What Medicare covers")
  * [benefit amounts](/node/40784#medical-services-costs)
  * [safety net thresholds](/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets "Medicare safety nets").

[Services Australia](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/) can help you with:

  * [getting a Medicare card](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/enrolling-medicare?context=60092)
  * [claiming benefits](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/how-to-claim-medicare-benefit?context=60092)
  * information about [entitlements and rebates](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/whats-covered-medicare?context=60092).

State, territory and local governments deliver and manage public health
services and regulate private hospitals.

The Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (Ahpra) regulates
registered health professionals in Australia.

Read more about [what we’re doing about Medicare](/topics/medicare/about/what-
we-do "What we're doing about Medicare").

## **Medicare reporting**

We [publish statistics](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting "Medicare
data, statistics and reporting") about the use of Medicare, including about
the:

  * use of fully paid and bulk-billed services
  * benefits paid
  * health services people have used.

You can also [create your own statistical
reports](https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/medicare-statistics?context=1)
for MBS and PBS items and categories.

Last updated:

20 December 2022

Tags:

  * [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

Is there anything wrong with this page?

## Help us improve health.gov.au

If you would like a response please use the [enquiries form](/about-
us/contact-us/general-enquiries "General enquiries") instead.

What you were doing? (mandatory)

What went wrong? (mandatory)

Leave this field blank

## In this section

##  [Medicare](/topics/medicare)

  * [About Medicare](/topics/medicare/about)
    * [What Medicare covers](/topics/medicare/about/what-medicare-covers)
    * [Costs](/topics/medicare/about/costs)
    * [Safety nets](/topics/medicare/about/safety-nets)
    * [What we do](/topics/medicare/about/what-we-do)
  * [For practitioners and industry](/topics/medicare/access-practitioners-industry)
  * [Compliance](/topics/medicare/compliance)
  * [Reforms and reviews](/topics/medicare/reforms-and-reviews)
  * [Data, statistics and reporting](/topics/medicare/data-statistics-reporting)
  * [Initiatives and programs](/topics/medicare/programs)
  * [News](/topics/medicare/news)
  * [Resources](/topics/medicare/resources)
  * [Contacts](/topics/medicare/contacts)

### Health and Aged Care

  * [About us](/about-us "About us")
  * [Ministers](/ministers)
  * [Careers](/about-us/work-with-us)
  * [Corporate reporting](/about-us/corporate-reporting)
  * [Freedom of information](/about-us/corporate-reporting/freedom-of-information-foi "Freedom of information")
  * [Contact us](/about-us/contact-us)
  * [Contacts directory](/contacts)

### Using our websites

  * [About our website](/using-our-websites/about-our-website)
  * [Accessibility](/using-our-websites/accessibility)
  * [Copyright](/using-our-websites/copyright)
  * [Disclaimer](/using-our-websites/disclaimer)
  * [Privacy](/using-our-websites/website-privacy-policy)
  * [Social media](/using-our-websites/social-media)
  * [Subscriptions](/using-our-websites/subscriptions)
  * [Vulnerability disclosure policy](/using-our-websites/vulnerability-disclosure-policy)

### Follow us

  * [Media centre](/media-centre)
  * [News](/news?f%255B0%255D=field_audience%3A451)
  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/healthgovau "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dept-of-health-and-ageing/ "Linked In")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/healthgovau "Twitter")
  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/healthgovau "Youtube")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/healthgovau/)

### Help us improve

We are always looking for ways to improve our website.

[Provide feedback](/about-us/contact-us/website-feedback)

The Department of Health and Aged Care acknowledges the traditional owners of
country throughout Australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and
community. We pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both
past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | [Department of Health and Aged Care](/)

